But it should be worth more than gold. Two days ago I spent a bunch of time finding and setting up an AI farm and now I have to do it all over again for a gold mine because that is more profitable. Also AI can only be found on extreme hazard planets making it more difficult to set up a mine.

If anyone else knows of a better way of making credits let us know.Why does anything need a price nerf in a game where the player can fully control the prices? Maybe now its the time to think again about cosmic trade. In 3star systems. Especially now with abundant slots space. Take Hauler and your 120 main cargo slots, buy everything on station and on planet and find then correct system to sell. Lot of millions could be achieved by this. You can still make millions upon millions of units daily by... Playing the game. And it isn't like AI farms are useless, they just aren't a brain dead way to roll in billions in a matter of days. It absolutely did. In fact, so did AI Valves, and I'm glad they did too.

Units aren't hard to come by, even at maximum lazy. I spent a lot of time building AI mines that could give me completely unnecessarily large levels of income. This update has slashed the amount of income they generate, but honestly I'm fine with that. The mines I built were more an exercise in what could I generate than what I needed to generate. 

I get why other people will be pissed that their income source has been slashed and their time investment effectively taken away from them. That is a completely valid opinion, but personally I will be able to cope fine with the lower level of income, and it might make units feel a little less like they're completely irrelevant because I'm always sat at the unit cap. 

However, I agree that AI being worth half as much as gold now feels a bit off. It feels like they've specifically targeted AI mines rather than that they've just been affecting by an overall economy rework. 

A large part of this game is maxing things "because I can". Combat is not so difficult that I need all S class upgrades for my weapons but I have them because I want to "max" out my weapons. Having an AI mine is similar - I want to build the best mining operation I can "because I can". If AI was nerfed, but was still the best mine for income I'd accept that and adjust. However, saying now that it's not the best mine for income anymore, and unless I reinvest all that time and effort in building a new gold mine, I'll be accepting half the income I could be getting, that grates a little.

I accept it's not really logical at all, but if they'd nerfed gold down to a lower value than AI, I'd feel less like they had invalidated all my time and effort building an AI mine.

That said, I wouldn't be at all surprised if values of goods get looked at again and tweaked in the next few days as HG looks at reactions and feedback, so I'm not rushing out to delete all my AI mines and replace them with gold mines just yet (apart from maybe a couple of old AI mines I haven't used in months and should have deleted long ago). eh i think nerfing it below gold is a breath of fresh air. this is simple, sure making an activated indium farm isnt the easiest, but activated indium is IMO FAR more plentiful than Gold. travelling even to a single blue star will likely yield one extreme hazard planet. Gold seems at least a little more scarce. but truthfully i have no horse in this race as i havent made a for profit extractor farm in years out of avoidance as its just a broken way to make money.

&amp;#x200B;

truthfully i think complaining about extractors is pointless because making even a 100 indum/hour extractor would still be too easy to mass produce and gain hundreds of millions of indium a day, it would simply require some more time. i advocate entirely making all money making methods significantly harder so its not quite so easy to make billions.