[removed]Amen, brother! Great write-up! There is a lot of fear and uncertainty around any new big disruptive technology shift.

But on one point I have some doubts:

&gt;I don't need my fans to push anything, my art pushes itself just fine wherever it's posted.

Reddit is different and can surface you in upvotes, but the singular example is also not a proof of anything. Especially since you did leverage your name/outside reputation/authority there in the comments. 

Have you tried though posting something on brand-new twitter or instagram accounts? Without mentioning that you are an established artist? I've seen (by actively digging) some great art and awesomely talented artists there that have no visibility (&lt;10 likes). 

But overall this isn't anything new - the space was saturated very much before AI Art was a thing, and now is even more as more people are trying it out... This guy prompts. More posts like this and less waifus please Dude, I LOVE Romantically Apocalyptic. 

Your work has been a huge inspiration to me as an artist and storyteller already, seeing what you can do with various resources such as 3d models and photos.   


Thrilled you popped in to talk about this. Thank you very much for sharing this. I think you have hit the nail on the head and explained perfectly why an artist, with an artist background and who is trained in AI work will, be of extreme value and could be highly successful. Also, your work is brilliant! New fan.  


I am reminded of a true story involving my (much) older brother who was a junior graphic designer for a Chicago ad firm in the 80's. They were all working in ink when someone drug in this little box called "The Macintosh SE". The veterans either laughed at it or grumbled that it would take their job. My brother and another young designer looked at each other and immediately signed up for training. (Oddly, their teacher was Chuck Wild, former keyboardist for the 80's group Missing Persons!) They both went on to have very stable careers using that little box. Man, this post just fills my heart with glee. It's the exact same thing I've been telling people, except I see myself as mostly a curious dabbler. Don't have any big art projects to add any legitimacy to my viewpoint. You, though: I loved Romantically Apocalyptic, and that lofi explosion image put a smile on my face when I first saw it. Good stuff.

It's good to see this viewpoint backed up by someone who knows what's up. You're a treasure, Vitaly! That seasons image is one of my favorites - had no idea it was yours. Great work. what do you think are the best media to print art on? Thanks, a rare balanced view of how the field can and will develop with the aid of AI.

I keep saying: shit in, shit out.

AI is but a tool that will make it tremendously easier to create compelling artwork, but it's not a magic button that just makes "art" by itself. &gt;Making money a freelance artist will be harder with AIs flooding the internet:

This point seems coherent to me. Art more accessible and extremely fast to make means that there will be much more supply, but not necessarily more demand. Thanks for the write up! 
Your work here is a proof that not every professional artist is afraid of change.

Also, I’m currently researching for my thesis about how AI-generated arts can disrupt the industry, but I didn’t know what direction to take. Your insights would be incredibly helpful here. I came across this thread and saw the first picture and was like, "that looks like Alexxius!" Then I looked at your username and realized you're the same guy. I used to buy your yearly calendars over a decade ago!

Thanks for sharing. I knew I could never draw as well as you, but I enjoy working on AI to make up for that. The cool thing this tech is that you can make variation of the same comic.  
For exemple you can convert your comics in Anime Style, Disney style or realistic style depending of the culture you are targeting. Firstly congrats, Romantically Apocalyptic is amazing and I've always loved the art style and detail in every image. I remember when I found out that photographs of actual people in costumes were used as part of the art creation process and it blew my mind. It's really cool to have stumbled across your informative post here!

Regarding point number 3.) -  Are there any tips on how you would approach a café or small shop etc that you feel would be quite interested in your art / photography (I do both). 

Sometimes I worry that I'll be asking or bothering the wrong person and I'm not even sure how I'd start showing them the work that I feel they would like without sounding really awkward - I'm not very good at marketing myself! It's something that I've daydreamed of doing but I'm not even sure how to pitch the idea to them. Awesome writeup. Always loved the style and story of Romantically Apocalyptic.

I'm curious though, do you think AI Art will be a new onramp for hobbyists and non-artists into the art world? You have a background in illustration and drawing by hand, in other words you learned to "art" with the traditional route. AI art (not including inpainting) doesn't require a single pen/stylus to touch paper/tablet. Hello from Novokuznetsk :p  
AI is the future and we, artists, better embrace it. I'm glad that our opinions match here. Using SD at work already! May I ask your age? It's fine if you want to keep it private &gt; Here's my take on it - no matter how sophisticated AI painting tech becomes, it will require skilled people to put it to good use.

This.

When Powerpoint got big, eveybody thought they were great at doing presentations. Turned out that you still need to be good at actually presenting, and using Powerpoint well is a difficult skill.

I could easily do a long list of similar technological advances. DTP, suddenly everyone could do great layouts, except that they couldn't. SQL, databases for ordinary users, except that it didn't turn out that way. And so on.

It makes pros more effective, and it enables hobbyists to do stuff that they wouldn't otherwise be able to, but they will still be hobbyists, and the pros will still be pros. Totally agree with you, it helps alot to have a visualization of what you want the ai to create before using it. Also a knowledge of what works and doesn't. I experience the same workflow as an artist, and what we create, the ai and I is in the end  unique. Agreed. Technical ability with a 2-D medium can make one a good illustrator, but it has nothing to do with being a good artist, and vice-versa. Stable Diffusion lowers the barrier on technical ability, and this mostly threatens the skilled illustrators who never actually became good artists. This seems like a solid argument but I noticed you've avoided the real argument against AI art. AI will rise up against humanity and destroy us. You are very correct. But it's also a lot easier to adapt when you sound very rich lol. I understand though and agree. Food for thought:

https://youtu.be/tjSxFAGP9Ss i don't really see this being the case moving forward. 

the ai doesn't have any problem making what you want but it can have some trouble understanding exactly what you want, so right now a human middle man is much better at going "no not like that" than the computer but there's nothing that says that that will be the case forever

i don't see why there can't be a version that has an iteration function where you can make an image and tell it "make it more/less realistic", "make it more like an anime", "make the boobs bigger" so then a human middle man would have no job here, you could just tell the computer exactly what you want the image to look like and iterate on it as much as you want [deleted] Yes yes yes! I hope this post finds it's place on many places on the internet and real world. I salute you. [deleted] Make art and always remember: russia is a terrorist state. &amp;#x200B;

https://preview.redd.it/blxhazaa08y91.png?width=2048&amp;format=png&amp;auto=webp&amp;s=4ce68ac040d133e2461c1ecac9f2a13966226b7d Holy cow I used to follow you on deviantart and read this comic over 13 years ago.

I remember seeing each panel so detailed, amazing scenery and thinking: that must be a lot of work. Iirc you had a wip post or something that showed you manually painting a building or something.

I'm glad to have found you again and I'm happy you have a tool to save you hours of work.

Time to pick up Romantically Apocalyptic again.