12 Strongest Ina Wroldsen Producers  
Björn Engelmann & Arnthor Birgisson  
October 27, 2017  
1 Viewer  
24,270 Views  
43 Contributors

Strongest Lyrics [Verse 1]  
You sit there with that look on your face like you won  
Like nothing I say is gonna change how you feel now.  
You sit there and you tell me you fell out of love,  
And we are in your way so you just gotta leave now.  
And we just need to understand your reasons,  
And you are gonna justify this treason.  
By telling me the promises that we swore ain't enough.

[Pre-Chorus]  
So now you gonna be another person?  
And how do I explain this shit to our son?  
How do you tell a toddler about a girlfriend?  
Daddy's gone.

[Chorus]  
Well, I will be the strongest that he ever knew.  
I will be there when he needs a love strong enough.  
Don't worry; I will carry your share for us.  
No matter how bad the storm,  
I will be the strongest that he ever knew.  
And we'll leave you alone.

[Verse 2]
You sit there with your phone in your hands and you're hurt.
You tell me that you feel like you lost me when he came.
I'm sorry but I cannot connect with your words,
'Cause right now what matters isn't yours, but it is his name.
And we just need to find another income
'Cause she wants you to help her with her own.
And you want me to tell me that what you've done is okay.

[Pre-Chorus]
So now are you gonna be another father?
And I will be a different kind of mother?
And would you tell a toddler 'bout step brothers?
Daddy's strayed.

[Chorus]
Well, I will be the strongest he ever knew,
And I will be there when he needs love strong enough.
Don't worry; I'll carry your share for us.
No matter how bad the storm, I will be
The strongest he ever knew.
And we'll leave you alone.

The love that we had in this family  
Let's talk about honesty  

You know nothing about honesty  

I'll let go of your hands and our plans  
And the chance that we had with this family  

[Chorus]  
Well, I will be the strongest he ever knew  
And I will be there when he needs a love strong enough  
Don't worry, I will carry your share for us  
No matter how bad the storm, I will be strongest he ever knew  
And we'll leave you alone  
Oh na-na, we'll leave you alone  

[Verse]  
12 [Embed Cancel How to Format Lyrics: Type out all lyrics, even repeating song parts like the chorus. Lyrics should be broken down into individual lines. Use section headers above different song parts like [Verse], [Chorus], etc. Use italics ( <i>lyric</i> ) and bold ( <b>lyric</b> ) to distinguish between different vocalists in the same song part. If you don’t understand a lyric, use [?] To learn more, check out our transcription guide or visit our transcribers forum.]  

About This Song  
Bio is unreviewed.  
Genius Annotation 1 contributor: “Strongest” is a song recorded by Norwegian singer and songwriter Ina Wroldsen.

The song "Strongest" was released on October 27, 2017, and peaked at number 2 in Norway. It marks Ina Wroldsen's first solo release under Syco Music, following her signing with the label in June 2017. The track centers its message around the heartbreak of a lost love and moving forward for her son.

In an interview with Charlotte Sissener from Musikknyheter, Wroldsen stated that "Strongest" is about a good friend of hers, describing the situation as "hard and bitter but also genuine and triumphant."

Q&A
Who produced “Strongest” by Ina Wroldsen?
Björn Engelmann & Arnthor Birgisson

When did Ina Wroldsen release “Strongest”?
Released on October 27, 2017

Who wrote “Strongest” by Ina Wroldsen?
Writers: Baard, Arnthor Birgisson, and Ina Wroldsen

Credits
Producers: Björn Engelmann & Arnthor Birgisson
Vocals: Ina Wroldsen
Label: Syco Records
Recording Engineer: Arnthor Birgisson
Programmer: Arnthor Birgisson
Mixing Engineer: Arnthor Birgisson
Keyboards: Arnthor Birgisson

Released on October 27, 2017

"Strongest" Covers and Remixes
- Strongest by Thomas Dybdahl
- "Strongest (Alan Walker Remix)" by Ina Wroldsen

Tags
Pop, Scandipop, Scandinavia, Norsk Pop, Norge, Electropop

And Drop Knowledge 🤓 Genius is an ultimate source of music knowledge, curated by scholars like you who share facts and insights about the songs and artists they love.