It’s 2017 and FFP has failed – what next for Arsenal? | Home | Arsenal’s Greatest Ever Team | Be our Guest | Contact us | Room 101 | The ‘C’ Word | Trolls | Video Library | About AA

In 2017, despite the failure of Financial Fair Play (FFP) to curb excessive spending, the corrupt authorities in charge have found ways to accommodate wealthy football owners. Since 2014, Newcastle United, Liverpool, and Tottenham Hotspur have "oiled up" as well. This has led to a decline in cup upsets like Wigan's historic win against Manchester City a few years ago. As a result, Arsenal finds itself playing each season merely to avoid relegation, resorting to beautiful football to entertain a reduced crowd at The Emirates Stadium now that the glory hunters have left the scene. The new European Super League is underway, providing mid-week breaks but raising concerns about the future of domestic competitions.

Arsenal, at some point, were considered the wealthiest club in England. Despite this, many fans remain indifferent to who owns the club. My question is: if we found a good guy with vast wealth and a deep love for football, particularly Arsenal, would this change our minds? In other words, could there ever be a time when it would be acceptable for Arsenal to pursue an "oil-rich" ownership model? 

MickyDidIt89 says:
April 3, 2014, at 10:14 am
Strewth, it’s been used. Hard times indeed.

May I add that if Arsenal were to permanently drop out of the top four, our sustainable model would be in jeopardy. Corporate and sponsorship deals would likely decrease significantly, making it unsustainable to play in front of a half-full stadium.

In short, everything hinges on Financial Fair Play (FFP) working effectively, and my 2017 model assumes it will not. Happy thoughts 🌟

Rasp says: April 3, 2014 at 10:18 am  
Thanks for stepping up, Micky. You pose an interesting question because it covers footballing, business, and moral boundaries. If it becomes the norm for successful clubs to be bankrolled by oil money, then the "if you can't beat 'em, join 'em" view might prevail. We've built a magnificent stadium to compete with the best; we couldn’t allow that to be half empty because we were perennial relegation fodder (our current owners wouldn’t let that happen). 

It is clear that more clubs will be bought up by owners, corporations, or countries as an ego trip, marketing exercise, or bandwagon jumping. Each time this happens, our business model becomes a little less competitive. I’d hate for Arsenal to be run by oil money, but if we’re struggling to compete against insurmountable odds, ask me again.

Rasp says: April 3, 2014 at 10:25 am  
At best, I can only see FFP being partially successful.

The clubs currently bankrolled by billionaires have already demonstrated that they can buy their way around the rules. MickyDidIt89 says: April 3, 2017 at 10:30 am Fair points Rasp. I know many people will not read this carefully and assume it’s from 2014. It’s actually 2017 with the scenario above. Rasp, would your mind be changed if it were not oil money but a cuddly Arsenal-supporting bigwig whose money is largely spent on supporting the underprivileged, and whose wealth was gained through robbing the corrupt? 🙂 

Rasp says: April 3, 2017 at 10:32 am Yes Micky, a veggie, sandal-wearing meditation guru philanthropist with a zero carbon footprint would be ideal 😛

MickyDidIt89 says: April 3, 2017 at 10:34 am Ah ha, we’re back to the violent Buddhist thug model 🙂 Steve, as he’s better known.

arnie says: April 3, 2017 at 10:38 am Great stuff, Micky. First, personally I love our model. Ceteris paribus, no oiling for me. Thank you, squillion-smiley oiler, but no. Second, scaremongering does not work. Why should we drop to the midtable if we lack oil? So be it; we won't compromise on principle.

Third, but most importantly, at the end of the day, I am an Arsenal fan. If the club decides to get involved with oil money, as it has in some states of the world, would I quit the club? No, never. So, I will accept it and wish well for the club, supporting them every week. 

Rasp says: April 3, 2014 at 10:41 am
I wonder how Manchester City fans would respond if you asked them if they’d prefer to return to their pre-oil days? I reckon at least 80% would choose the way it is now—although many of those may be new fans.

Rasp says: April 3, 2014 at 10:42 am
Maybe we could ask Blue Valentine to conduct a poll on his Manchester City site and let us link to it?

arnie says: April 3, 2014 at 10:44 am
One further thought: if we drop mid-table, maybe the bile-spewing doomsday usherers will leave us in peace? Aha, happy thoughts.

Rasp says: April 3, 2014 at 10:47 am  
Maybe clubs could have two teams playing under their name: one with showboating multi-millionaire players in a European super league and another that has a kickabout on Saturday afternoons with just a quarter of an orange at half-time.

Shard says: April 3, 2014 at 10:51 am  
Clever post, Rasp. I guess we’ll cross that bridge when we come to it. But fast-forward to the year 2021, and all oily oligarchs are having second thoughts about spending their wealth on such petty things as clubs. A few have been caught laundering funds, mainly because the political climate turns against the influence they are exerting contrary to Western nations’ interests. The rest realize that since everyone has "oiled up," there is no glory to be had even through spending vast sums of money and decide to cut their losses and run, thereby selling all the assets they can.

While owners running their clubs as businesses decide that the best way to ensure profits is by entering into a US-style salary cap agreement, which will ensure that profits accrue to them rather than going towards ever-increasing wage costs, we are back to a sustainable model. Arsenal fell behind the curve in both implementing and then moving to a sustainable model after oiling up in 2018. 

Micky says: April 3, 2014 at 10:53 am  
There were at least six "oil clubs" in the Premier League in 2017, and one shouldn't say it couldn't happen again. If they bought all the best players, how do you divide six into four for Champions League football?

Arnie says: April 3, 2014 at 10:55 am  
There are many on this site who came to support Arsenal because of family, or history, or both. I started supporting Arsenal because it had principles, because it dared to be different. Perhaps strange, but being different and defiant holds a lot of value for some, and that’s me. Even if that means we cannot compete with the big boys.

🙂 Arnie says: April 3, 2014 at 11:01 AM  
Good points, Shard. And lovely point, Kelsey, though I do not see it quite the same way as you. There is always going to be a premium on great players because they are scarce. How do you distribute these top players among the teams? Even if the six oilers take away some of these resources, there will still be good, albeit not brilliant, players available for the non-oilers. The extent to which resources can be taken away by the oilers is limited, even if some mediocre players become overpriced due to the influence of the oil. Nay, not for me! 🙂 

MickyDidIt89 says: April 3, 2014 at 11:12 AM  
To my mind, there is a mass hypocrisy among some individuals. They are completely happy to benefit from funds provided by Barclays, Big Mac, and other entities, but they adopt a shallow double standard when it comes to wealthy individuals, taking a posturing aloof stance against them. So, back to my cuddly Robin Hood if that makes you feel better 🙂 

Rasp says: April 3, 2014 at 11:16 AM  
That’s a good point, Micky. Is there any such thing as 'clean money' these days?

Big money is coming into the game, and we're happy to take it from TV companies and others—what's the difference? LB says: April 3, 2014 at 11:22 am

Now there’s a post that really makes you think.

Danny says: April 3, 2014 at 11:22 am
I’m not sure if this comment will make sense but Chelsea and Man City were always average teams that won the odd league title (in 1955, 1937, and 1968) plus a couple of cups. They also spent years in the second and third divisions, so they really have "bought" success.

Arsenal is a different kettle of fish altogether. If a billionaire bought us and started pouring money into the club, it would simply be adding to an already successful club with major history. I for one have no problem with that, especially after we left Highbury.

arnie says: April 3, 2014 at 11:24 am
In my humble opinion, the difference lies in how you use the money. Whether you spend it judiciously, assigning appropriate value fairly to each player, and in equitable ways that align with what each player brings to the club.

Or do you use this money to hoard overpriced mediocre players just to restrict your opponents' game plans? Whether you provide value to fans or create a club of worthless sycophants who might have once called themselves players in a past life, there is a significant difference, in my opinion. 🙈 However, this is a matter of principle. How you implement it in practice remains somewhat uncertain!

Arnie says: April 3, 2014 at 11:25 am

Rasp: While you were around, I sent an email. 😊

Rasp says: April 3, 2014 at 11:30 am
Thanks, Arnie. I’ve read your email and will consult the ticket guru to reply as soon as possible.

Shard says: April 3, 2014 at 11:31 am
Micky, for me, the opposition is less about the source of the money than its impact on football as a whole and Arsenal specifically. My concern with Arsenal becoming an oligarch's property extends beyond mere moralism; I believe it poses significant dangers.

Arsenal could become a vehicle for money laundering, it could be merely a cash cow, or it might achieve significant success for a while before suddenly faltering due to unforeseen events such as death, prison, war, bankruptcy, or boredom.

Personally, I do not believe these owners are seeking to engage in philanthropy and am wary of any offers of charity from Arsenal. Engaging with Arsenal as a business partner is a different matter.

Rasp says: April 3, 2014 at 11:32 am
Hi Danny, your comment makes perfect sense. I think many are struggling with the moral question, and as Shard has pointed out, we haven’t witnessed the potential for disaster if a billionaire owner were to lose interest or if leveraged debt was called in.

arnie says: April 3, 2014 at 11:36 am
Lovely points, and nicely put, Shard. 😛

Danny says: April 3, 2014 at 11:40 am
Rasp, I see what you and Shard mean. I pray every day that Abramovich will lose interest and pull the plug.

I remember reading an interview with one of his Russian mob friends who said he just couldn’t understand why Roman was messing around with Chelsea because he was losing money.

Arnie says: April 3, 2014 at 11:46 am

Danny: Abramovich is an oligarch from Russia. When he was cornered by Putin's henchmen, he had to quickly find a way to park his money. Since then, he has been making losses, but there is still hope that in the long run, things might improve. People who parked their money in stocks and housing assets also made even greater losses. The moment better investment opportunities arise, rest assured, the money will fly. 😊

Danny says: April 3, 2014 at 111:54 am

Chelsea will always be the second division team in my mind that a mate of mine would make me go and watch during the 70s when they had Geoff Hurst as manager, the Wilkins brothers with hair, Flasher Walker, and Jaws from James Bond (Mickey Droy). Of course, I only bothered to watch when we were playing away on Saturdays.

Shard says: April 3, 2014 at 11:56 am Danny

If I were a wealthy individual looking to make money and diversify my wealth, I would invest in a football club and own all its assets. I could loan them money (even if these loans are converted to equity, it remains linked to ownership of the club’s assets). Additionally, I would invest in certain players’ futures through an investment firm specializing in third-party ownership agencies. Then, using my club, I would buy these players for inflated values, ensuring that the money I loaned to my club comes back to me through being channeled around the world. This way, not only do I recover my initial investment, but the club also owes me even more money.

To further diversify and secure prime real estate, I would look to move the club to another piece of land that I could acquire for a low price due to the goodwill I have built up among the fans of the club.

When I run out of ways to generate additional income from the club or when it becomes too difficult to continue doing so, I would sell the real estate and disposable assets. Even if I had to sell the equity at what appears to be a significant 'loss', I would still have made a substantial profit in this business venture over the years, thanks to the legitimacy and visibility gained. 

Rasp says: April 3, 2014 at 11:59 am

In other words … Chelsea are screwed then Shard? 😆

arnie says: April 3, 2014 at 12:02 pm

To get back to Micky's point, the question is: does it matter? While the money may only be temporary, it can still help win a few trophies in the meantime. To me, what truly matters is how the money is used—whether it generates value or unfairly restricts competition from direct rivals and less developed footballing nations. Furthermore, as Shard pointed out, the kind of money also holds moral significance.

I am not saying all money is dirty, but the origin—whether it's 'black' or 'white'—does matter to some extent. We hate that journalists are constantly spewing criticism against our club. Would anyone really want to see Arsenal mentioned alongside Barcelona in this week’s papers? At least negative coverage is on the back pages; corruption makes headlines. 🙂 arnie says: April 3, 2014 at 12:05 pm My god, Shard, you know quite a bit about this kind of stuff! 😛 arnie says: April 3, 2014 at 12:06 pm Just wondering if you are somehow linked to Harshad Mehta or Dawood!!!!! 😛 just a joke. 🙂 Danny says: April 3, 2014 at 12:09 pm Shard Well he tried for Battersea Power Station but failed miserably! Shard says: April 3, 2014 at 12:22 pm arnie If you hadn’t been joking, you might have received a very unpleasant visitor 😛 arnie says: April 3, 2014 at 12:25 pm Shard: 🙂 Shard says: April 3, 2014 at 12:29 pm

Well, the point is that if I can think of ways to make money through owning a PL football club, despite seeming losses, all the billionaires and companies lining up to get in can certainly come up with many more strategies. This is why I distrust offers from billionaires who claim they want to 'invest' in Arsenal; if Usmanov truly wants to provide financial support to Arsenal and trusts Wenger (as he claims), he could simply write a cheque. His intention seems to be acquiring ownership before any potential losses start.

Regarding Chelsea, it appears that Roman Abramovich does not own the land on which Stamford Bridge stands. He has been trying to negotiate with the fans' group that owns the land, seeking their cooperation in selling it. Abramovich likely intends to secure an alternative piece of land where he promises to build a new stadium. However, my understanding is that he might be trying to get them to sell first and then find another plot of land, as failing to acquire the current land would result in him losing money while giving the fans' group financial gain by shifting away from Stamford Bridge.

Dandan says: April 3, 2014 at 12:34 PM  
Great stuff, Mickey! But I find myself unable to join in the frivolity due to the Hillsborough inquest which I am following on Twitter. Many older Arsenal fans know it could have been us as we had all attended games at Hillsborough. I hope we would have acted with the same dignity and grace as a club. Please take a moment to read the tweets coming out of the inquest, where the families pay tribute to the 96 victims. We play Everton this weekend; they are a classy club too. If you haven't seen it already, watch their chairman, Bill Kenwright's speech (below) at the last memorial service—it truly exemplifies class.

Chelsea are owned and more pragmatically funded by a billionaire who has been doing so for several years. Despite claiming a desire to reduce the club's financial dependence on him, he has shown no intention of selling or decreasing his investment.

Manchester City is owned by an Arab state, and significant funds have flowed into the club, with indications that this will continue in the foreseeable future. Manchester United, sadly, are currently the biggest club in the world, but despite the controversial ownership of the Glazers, they attract sponsorship money like krill attract whales.

These three clubs will likely dominate the English Premier League top 3 for years to come. The fourth spot will remain a battleground for other teams, occasionally with challenges from Arsenal, Liverpool, and Spurs, much as what happened last season with Tottenham. Is it right? Desirable? No—on both counts. Will Financial Fair Play (FFP) change this scenario? Doubtful.

Well, there is still hope. Unlike what some might think, the new rules are indeed having an impact. In the summer, even clubs like Citeh and PSG, which are known for their oil money and oligarch funding, will sell players to buy new ones in order to remain within the regulations. Additionally, Citeh and PSG are being investigated by an independent panel chaired by PwC to determine whether they are conforming to Financial Fair Play (FFP).

If FFP has failed and condemned Arsenal to being a perennial underachiever, I would say, as I did on AA some years ago, that I would have no compunction in welcoming a spendthrift billionaire to enable us to join the burgeoning number of other clubs going over to the dark side. Would I regret it? Yes, but nothing remains static in life. Although I can be as nostalgic as anyone about 'the old ways and customs,' it is undeniable that life moves on—and I would want the club to adapt.

That said, I think it is too soon to give up on FFP yet, despite its obvious flaws.

I guess this question will divide us between the romantic and the pragmatic, the traditionalist and the modernist. Regardless, we all want what's best for the club, and that inevitably means what will satisfy the majority of the fans.

RA says: April 3, 2014 at 12:49 pm

Shard,

With respect to your criticism of Usmanov, while he may indeed deserve opprobrium in some circles, it is shortsighted to imply that a large financial gesture would resolve matters. He had attempted this previously but was rebuffed by the club's owners and Board of Directors, who explicitly refused any such approach. Usmanov is persona non grata within the club's hierarchy, and they would not be beholden to him due to the associated costs and other considerations.

Other issues like FFP (Financial Fair Play) compliance, the Companies Act, and Revenue and Customs regulations also need to be addressed.

Enton Gill says: April 3, 2014 at 12:54 pm  
What you all seem to forget is that Arsenal is owned by two wealthy individuals. One, Usmanov, is richer than Mr. Chelsea (likely a typo for 'Chelski'). Silent Stan's family owns Walmart and Asda.

RA says: April 3, 2014 at 1:03 pm  
Enton, you are correct—but you do not mention that Arsenal as a club has continued the tradition of being a self-sustaining business and not funded by external sources. Additionally, Usmanov has no power or authority at Arsenal; although he is the second-largest shareholder, he cannot even get a seat on the Board of Directors. Therefore, I am not sure what your point is?

Rasp says: April 3, 2014 at 1:04 pm  
Hi Enton, we are well aware of the personal wealth of our two major shareholders. Kroenke, the major shareholder, wants to run the club under a self-sustaining financial model; he won't be ploughing any of his own wealth into the club. The other (Mr. Usmanov) is prepared to invest his personal wealth but, as RA points out, at a price the club are not prepared to pay.

It is unusual for a 30% shareholder of a multimillion-pound company to have no representation on the board. However, such is the divide between the two parties that Mr. Kroenke barely acknowledges Mr. Rasp, says: April 3, 2014 at 1:05 pm

OK Redders said that all before me 😦

GoonerB says: April 3, 2014 at 1:07 pm
Excellent post, Micky. Our doom will never happen. You see, I have checked the tarot cards, and I can foresee two to three future scenarios which may play out:

Scenario 1: Mr. Michael Didit from somewhere in England near the coast becomes the first person to win the Euro-millions 20 times back-to-back. Being a massive fan of the good guys, he buys them up, invests heavily, and blows everyone else out of the water.

Scenario 2: The person known as Mr. Michael Didit, originally from somewhere in England near the coast, secures a 10-square-mile area of arid land overseas in the desert, in the middle of nowhere....

Everyone said at the time, "You are off your bloody rocker," did it. As 2017 rolled by, the doomsday prediction associated with "didit" seemed to be unfolding, with Financial Fair Play (FFP) failing and Arsenal's performance significantly dropping.

In 2018, a sense of trepidation filled the air, only for it to be discovered that "didit" controlled a desert containing over 80% of the world’s remaining oil reserves. He promptly became known as “Sheikh Didit” and was declared the richest man in the world. He bought up the good guys, who were now more well-funded than anyone else, and they dominated all competition.

From his desert palace, surrounded by a harem (to offset the pain of not surfing, as he is no longer near the coast), Sheikh Didit sat back with an eunuch known as Terry Mancini as his aide. He watched as the good guys dominated every aspect of their industry for eternity.

---

Scenario 3: A conglomerate of intelligent young fellows—let's refer to them as Didit, Rasper, Shardy Baby, Big Arnie, and Red Derrier—invented and patented a device that perfected nuclear fusion.

This will become the new world energy source, relegating oil to mere use in cosmetic applications, such as smearing it all over your body at a "Come Dine with Me" Meze evening hosted by Terry Mancini's. They swiftly buy up the good guys and decisively outshine everyone else. I hope this helps, didit. Remember, the Tarot cards don't lie… 

Rasp says: April 3, 2014 at 1:09 pm 😆

GoonerB arnie says: April 3, 2014 at 1:23 pm Ha ha ha, GoonerB. 🙂 

Of course, in each scenario, the financial manager is one GoonerBGood, and it's wise to invest the money wisely. 🙂 

MickyDidIt89 says: April 3, 2014 at 1:25 pm RA Love your 12:35 Rasp. Agree that the question of whether the Club is leveraged is crucial. GoonerB, I'll think about it, though it slightly depends on whether there will be anything left in the kitty after my trip to Switzerland and full body reconstruction to mid-80s magnificence.

Given the abuse, I doubt there will be anything left over 🙂 GoonerB says: April 3, 2014 at 1:26 pm

Say that to Redditors like Arnie (about GoonerB as financial manager investing wisely) and he will come over all funny. I am afraid he doesn’t quite recognize my dynamic modern approach to financial matters.

GoonerB says: April 3, 2014 at 1:28 pm
Micky, probably easier to grow a new didit from stem cells than trying to renew the current one 🙂 RA says: April 3, 2014 at 1:29 pm

GoonerB, 🙂 Oddly enough, I have been teaching Terry how to build a fusion generator. He wants to convert it into natty headwear so that he can regrow his head hair (I cannot allow myself to even think of where else he might use it) -shudders- and won’t listen to my warnings that it could melt his brain. He said he wasn't worried about that because Glic had assured him that there was no difference.

MickyDidIt89 says: April 3, 2014 at 1:29 pm
GB, Ignore The American. He gets very odd over the odd zero here and there.

MickyDidIt89 says: April 3, 2014 at 1:31 pm  
GoonerB Genius. Take a cutting from me, into some clean soil, add water, and bingo.

GoonerB says: April 3, 2014 at 1:31 pm  
BTW before I pop off, I was reading Shards 11.56 and am now thinking is Shard actually a Bond villain intent on world domination. The more I read the more I realised what a scary and deviously brilliant mind we had on our hands… cue Evil laugh… 😀

kelsey says: April 3, 2014 at 1:31 pm  
I am not an accountant but I believe CL football brings in upwards of 30 million a season, and around 80 million if you win it. But I am sure someone will correct me if I am wrong. Apart from FFP, there is the possibility that the PL could be reduced to three entries next year. Even if the status quo remains as this season, it is not unreasonable to suggest that United will be challenging at least for a top 4 place in the coming year.

Arsenal have previously stated that they could sustain one year without Champions League football (the Europa League brings in significantly less revenue compared). As others have noted, Gazidis will likely not spend heavily regardless of who is the manager. Instead, he will explore other ways to increase revenue. We are a proud club with rich heritage, and we are probably one of two top-flight clubs—alongside Everton—that run the club as a well-organized business should. My crystal ball only extends so far, but unless Kroenke eventually sells the club, I don’t see significant changes in policy. 

GoonerB says: April 3, 2014 at 1:33 pm
Exactly Micky; it’s easy peasy, and plenty of your newfound wealth is left for Arsenal domination purposes.

arnie says: April 3, 2014 at 1:33 pm
GoonerB: You are Redders' (only) friend; take his training free of cost, and then follow your gut instincts. Animal spirits and the like. 🙂 

Vintage Gooner says: April 3, 2014 at 1:34 pm
An interesting area of discussion, and thank you Micky for opening it. On the threat of oligarch or oil-rich ownership, they are real but difficult to quantify.

Perhaps a professional risk analysis would be an interesting post. Perhaps someone from AA could undertake this for Arsenal, given their unique structure with a very hands-off principal owner who is shadowed by one of the biggest (in every sense) oligarchs.

For me, I would like to see Arsenal bridge the gap by issuing shares ideally through fanshare, with 10% being available each year. To preserve balance, the two major shareholders should be able to purchase an equivalent share. Such a proposal could provide new money for Arsenal of between £70–£140 million per year over the next five years, enabling us to compete effectively with other clubs and introduce a way for Arsenal fans at large to have a significant voice in the club they love.

On a detail that is largely missed by many contributors, the assumed scenario for 2017 includes a new super European league. This would also take at least four EPL clubs out and include flexible promotion/relegation arrangements. Such an arrangement would allow us to comfortably cope with six oil/oligarch-dominated EPL teams and provide ample opportunity for these clubs to move up and on to the SEL.

MickyDidIt89 says: April 3, 2014 at 1:35 pm  
RA Transplant forgot to remove the tin foil he sports on his head, which he believes serves dual purposes: giving him the desired 70s glitter top appeal and keeping out unwanted transmissions.

MickyDidIt89 says: April 3, 2014 at 1:43 pm  
Kelsey “My crystal ball can only see so far, but unless Kroenke eventually sells out, I don’t see the policy changing dramatically.” You also say that our model could only survive one season without CL Revenue, and I agree (possibly for a bit longer). It is finely balanced with the majority of match day income from Corporate. If Spuds oiled up, along with Toon and Pool in my illustration, we’d be doomed, and a 60,000 stadium could not be sustained. Our business model would collapse.

MickyDidIt89 says: April 3, 2014 at 1:47 pm  
Wow, great comment Vintage. Fan Share is a topic for a really good post. Might have to be nice to an accountant. Ameeericaaan, where are youuuuu? 

arnie says: April 3, 2014 at 1:48 pm

Yes, great stuff, Vintage. 🙂 Arnie says: April 3, 2014 at 1:49 PM The European Super League stuff sounds like a damp squib, though. 🙂 MickyDidIt89 says: April 3, 2014 at 2:00 PM Leave the squibs out of it. It’s a hypothetical scenario, Arnie. 🙂 Shard says: April 3, 2014 at 2:07 PM RA, you surprise me with your trusting nature regarding some news reports about Usmanov offering to bankroll the club. I’m struggling to recall any such offer having been made; though there might have been some PR activity. As far as I know, Usmanov has never publicly confirmed whether he would be willing to personally fund the club even if he were to own it. My guess is that he wouldn’t, because he’s avoided addressing this directly, even when given the opportunity. He even made veiled references to Financial Fair Play (FFP) by suggesting prices might come down in the future. Their open letter in response to RVP's letter criticized the board and proposed increasing commercial income, which was essentially what the board was already doing.

They have never claimed to represent an alternative model of ownership. What I recall R&W proposing was a rights issue to raise £100 million for the club. This would have required Kroenke to invest more personally just to maintain his shareholding, or it could have allowed R&W to increase their stake. Given this scenario, such a proposal never seemed likely to proceed and was merely intended to gain goodwill.

Additionally, in R&W’s critical statements regarding KSE's management of Arsenal, one criticism pointed out that Gazidis had approached a company with Usmanov on its board (Megafon) for sponsorship. The implication was that this was an unreasonable suggestion since Usmanov is not on Arsenal's board. To my knowledge, Usmanov has neither made any offers nor provided any assurances to fund Arsenal from his personal resources. Furthermore, he has also ruled out the possibility of companies under his influence sponsoring the club. Shard says: April 3, 2014 at 2:10 pm Gooner B.

If you do not cease and desist from taking this any further, you will join Arnie on a list of people to be paid a visit.

MickyDidIt89 says: April 3, 2014 at 2:20 pm

Shard says: It’s such a weird dynamic at Arsenal. We have SK, who was "sort of" unwanted by the previous board, and then there's AU, who is shunned by the current lot and has little interest in football (fencing being his only sporting passion).

Shard says: April 3, 2014 at 2:29 pm

The Fanshare scheme was a great idea, but sadly it did not work because the two larger shareholders managed to tempt many fans to sell their shares. This meant that the shares still held by fans are essentially meaningless. A rights issue to "earn" money is another way of getting owners to finance you, which depreciates the value of each share. It would mean that unless fans also bought new shares (and kept them), their shares would represent even less voting rights. So it seems a little paradoxical to suggest both a rights issue and a Fanshare scheme.

Also, I believe a rights issue can only be an emergency one-time measure. If the value of the stock plummets next year due to more shares entering the market, it is because the scarcity of a commodity drives its price up. Therefore, buying a stock that will depreciate in value next year does not make sense, especially just to fill the club’s coffers with money. I am almost certain this will not be in the club's long-term interests either. So, I will spare you and stop rambling on. 

TERRY MANCINI HAIR TRANSPLANT says: April 3, 2014 at 2:32 pm
Shard baby, can you pay me a visit? I haven't had any action for ages.
We don't need any sugar daddy money.

As the great man Hill Wood said, "We don't need his sort around here," referring to Usmanov. 
Oh Shit, just remembered he was talking about Stan. 
So now his comment is, "Stan, do you want that Andrex stuff much loved for its softness and that Dog, or the really hard stuff from Tescos used by Frank Ribbery?"

To much hypocrisy for my liking, so I get confused, and when I get confused, I don't know what to do, so I don’t know what to do. Happy belated birthday GB. Now, what’s all this "eunuch" business? I will let you know that on certain dating websites where no one posts real pictures or actually ever meets, I am known as The Unicorn. Just thought I’d make that clear.

Arnie says: April 3, 2014 at 2:33 pm  
Shard: This is finance rather than accounting. More interesting for me. 🙂 I liked the lecture. 😛

Shard says: April 3, 2014 at 2:46 pm  
Micky, I don’t think PHW’s statement was exactly representing the board. Kroenke's first shares in Arsenal came from ITV and… Although it was Dein who seems to have been keen to sell to a billionaire, Fiszman wouldn't have agreed with PHW. Basically, I think PHW's statement was borne out of (a) a desire to not see Arsenal in private ownership, and (b) a feud with Dein. Usmanov, in my view, will not be an Abramovich.

I dislike him because he uses propaganda to gain his aims, but I don’t think he’ll run Arsenal any differently from how KSE does now. But Usmanov has made his wealth by playing the stock markets. He invested in Facebook and Megafon, among others, betting on companies poised for significant growth, thereby increasing their stock value before selling them off. It’s unlikely that he would view Arsenal any differently.

Kroenke, at least, runs a sports empire and is likely to be more committed over the long haul than Usmanov.

(My view) I understand neither finance nor accounting, but I have made an effort to understand Arsenal. So, hopefully, it’s not all nonsense, but it's possible that it might be 😈

Terry: A bond villain never pays visits himself; he has his cronies do it. You can do it with my cronies too. Although when I tell them they need to be ready for action, I presume they won’t expect what YOUR devious mind can come up with.

Shard says: April 3, 2014 at 3:01 pm YESSSSS… Ramsey’s back in training and might be in the squad for the trip to Everton.

Big Raddy says: April 3, 2014 at 3:23 pm  
Nay, Nay & thrice Nay. I would prefer to support AFC in the hinterland occupied by Spurs than get involved. But if a nice offer comes along with respect for the club and its traditions (much like MC's owners), then maybe.

RA says: April 3, 2014 at 3:44 pm  
Hi Shard,  
You are a master of deflection. You bring up a subject, in this case a test of Usmanov’s good intentions, requiring him to pay a cheque out of his own pocket to Arsenal (Loan? Gift? Capital restructure), and then having it pointed out that it was a non-goer, either for the Board or because of the implications of UEFA’s FFP regulations, let alone the impact of the Companies Act or Revenue and Customs complications. Additionally, it was reported he had already made such an offer and had it rejected. You then ignore all that and concentrate on your ‘surprise’ that I relied on the media for my information.  
If everyone in blogdom had to rely on 'fact' to conduct a conversation, including here on AA, there would be deafening silence.

But wait; you had not finished. You then proceeded to mention an alleged offer by Usmanov to raise £100m through a share restructuring, presumably reported in the media, and rounded it off nicely with another alleged report in the media about the sponsorship of Arsenal involving Usmanov and Gazidis, which may or may not have happened.

Masterfully done. You would be a rival to Sherlock Holmes's nemesis, Moriarty, for sheer deviousness! I raise my chapeau to you. 🙂 

RA says: April 3, 2014 at 4:07 pm

Hi Terry, 🙂
You have stated a truism @ 2:32; ‘We don’t need any sugar daddy money’. Indeed, no one NEEDS sugar daddy money, per se, but alas and alack, more and more clubs have resorted to obtaining external sources of funds from such sources or Arab states simply to give themselves an unfair advantage in the pursuit of trophies. A properly run club, even one as big as Arsenal, either has to rely on UEFA FFP rules to restrain these oligarch clubs, as Arsene Wenger has publicly stated he hopes it will, or become resigned to permanently feeding off the craps left over as they squabble among themselves.

I remain hopeful that the Football Finance Policy (FFP) will have an impact, and this summer will be the first time we'll see its visible effects. We should expect to see a significant release of high-quality players from Chelsea, Manchester City, and foreign clubs, as they seek to fund the purchase of even better players. This might provide Arsenal and other non-oligarch companies with an opportunity to acquire talented players at more affordable prices.

In the meantime, RA writes: April 3, 2014 at 4:09 pm - I am off to sell something to GoonerB. 🙂 Shard responds: April 3, 2014 at 4:17 pm - Hi RA. Both those aspects of the Megafon sponsorship and the rights issue (though without the 100m figure) were mentioned in R&W’s open letter. So the information is coming directly from reliable sources.

I did, however, forget to mention your excellent points about the impact of a cheque written to Arsenal in relation to Financial Fair Play (FFP) or Companies Law. While I do not know the intricacies of the rules, I believe that if Usmanov really intends to run Arsenal through his personal chequebook, ways are easily enough found around the limiting regulations. In any case, my point was broader than Usmanov. There was no test of his good intentions involved; it was simply to illustrate my cynicism towards oligarchs being involved in football and potentially losing money, despite appearances. You too seemed to agree with this point (if only indirectly and in part) by stating that the ‘offer’ had strings attached.

Lastly, though I dislike Usmanov due to his approach, and wouldn't want him to have control over Arsenal, I am also glad that his stake, along with Moshiri's, means that Kroenke does not own Arsenal outright. We cannot have multiple owners, so a duopoly will have to do.

I was surprised only because you are such a pedant about proper sourcing of information whenever someone mentions media reports as the basis of a theory, and I wouldn’t have taken you for a hypocrite. 🙂 

Kelsey says: April 3, 2014 at 4:17 pm  
Maybe Roger Daltrey and Ray Davies could muster up a buyout, but if that fails, what about The Queen? Arsenal by Appointment to the Queen FC has a nice ring to it.

RA says: April 3, 2014 at 4:18 pm  
Actually, before I go, and to back up what I was saying earlier, here is an extract of what AW said in an interview with ESPN regarding financial doping and FFP:
“Bayern Munich are far ahead of the competition in Germany. If we look at Bayern’s success as an example, I think UEFA’s Financial Fair Play (FFP) must be brought in and adhered to for the good of the game. I think it’s a good decision, a fair decision. We have to go down that path. Otherwise, we will all end up in the street. Why? Because there are new billionaires every day, and crazy people too.”

Football is often perceived as a financial competition lacking in economic logic, leading to a two-tiered system where national championships become less exciting due to the dominance of a few teams. When a title is decided eight matchdays before the end of the season, it undermines the integrity and fairness of the competition. The Bundesliga, being one of Europe's major leagues, demands a reevaluation of its conditions to ensure that competing teams have a realistic chance of winning each year. Historical examples prove that such balance can be achieved, but it requires stringent financial regulations. 

Kelsey says: April 3, 2014 at 4:18 pm
RA leads Shard by 4-3 in the fifth and final set.

Shard says: April 3, 2014 at 4:24 pm
RA

To be sure, feeding off the crumbs of the wealthy clubs doesn’t appeal to me one bit.

Shard says: April 3, 2014 at 4:28 PM  
I will accept a media report but surely that Wenger assessment is from his own Eurosport blog rather than an interview.

Shard says: April 3, 2014 at 4:31 PM  
What’s the score now, Kelsey?

RA says: April 3, 2014 at 4:37 PM  
Shard,

To call me a pedant and a hypocrite is disrespectful and really unnecessary. I said earlier today that if we all had to rely on 'facts' for every comment, this site and others would have blank screens. Opinions are the lifeblood of every public forum; however much we agree or disagree with what is said, there is one exception.

AA's policy on blogging is fundamentally correct, and in case you haven't read it, I will give you a snippet that applies to this conversation:

"All opinions and viewpoints can be freely expressed, but no-one should descend into insults and name-calling."

Perhaps you will give it some thought.

RC78 says: April 3, 2014 at 4:42 PM  
It is just a matter of time before Arsenal moves in this direction.

Man Utd, Man City, Chelsea, Liverpool, Tottenham, and even QPR have gone under ultra-rich owners who can spend big every summer. In France, PSG and Monaco have done the same recently, with OM, Lyon, Lens, Lille, and St-Etienne potentially following suit. The way football is going, it's only a matter of time before Arsenal follows this trend to keep up with these clubs. Bayern and Barcelona also have interesting models, but I'm not sure if it will work for Arsenal, and Real Madrid has the luxury of its debts being erased by the King himself. We just need to plan the transition well and ensure that our Academy and focus on youth and young talent remain core values of the club.

Shard says: April 3, 2014 at 4:45 pm
Sigh… RA. I figured the smiley face would take away any offense you might otherwise associate with those words, as well as show that you know me well enough by now to know that I bear no disrespect towards you. If anything, respect ranks high among my feelings towards you.

Kelsey, you can stop keeping score.

I hyper-extended my funny bone joint and have withdrawn from the contest. I apologize for any offense given and assure you it was unintentional. I will be more mindful in the future.

RA says: April 3, 2014 at 4:52 pm  
Sorry, Shard, I wasn't really being serious; just being pedantic! 🙂  
Of course, now I have set myself up—I sometimes tease Arnie, Kelsey, Micky, GIE, and Terry—and pretty much everyone else if I get the chance!! 🙂  
Sorry again!

RA says: April 3, 2014 at 4:56 pm  
RC78, we share similar views. It is a sad reflection on the way football has evolved over the last decade or so. Additionally, it's worse that this happened during our stadium construction period, and AW has taken all the flak in an impossible situation for the club and its fans.

Vinay says: April 3, 2014 at 5:21 pm  
I think one reason many people like or dislike Arsenal is because we swim against the tide. We are that underdog whom everyone wants to root for, but if we win, there's a sense of "how could they." I love my club because it stands for certain principles, but at the same time, I don't want us to lag behind everyone else and have an empty boast that we didn't lose our principles. Arsenal needs to find the balance, which I think Wenger and the board agree on. Therefore, I believe there will be the right mixture, and hopefully, it gives us the right results.

RC78 says: April 3, 2014 at 5:48 pm  
I am sure that we can maintain some of our core values while having a rich owner who allows us to compete on the big stage.

This is not a fundamental contradiction… At PSG (my home team), the plan is to invest heavily until 2018 and then rely more on our scouting system and youth academy. While we are acquiring top players currently, in the background, our scouting system and youth academy are being improved to allow us to depend less on external stars and more on internal talent… The business model will change when we start creating our own stars that we may eventually sell for profit… Right now, we are still in the phase of buying players like Cavani and co…

The Cockie Monster says: April 3, 2014 at 5:53 pm

In other words, is there ever a time when you would consider it okay for Arsenal to "oil up"? Ever a time!……………………. I’m pissed off it hasn’t already happened!

I believe we will never win the Premier League until we are as “oiled up” as our competitors unless Financial Fair Play (FFP) works in our favor… but there’s more chance of there being a Saint Savile of Save the Children!

There will be one-offs from poorer teams challenging, like Liverpool this year, but that is ironically because they basically only have 38 games to play due to not being in the Champions League, Europa League, Conference Cup, and early FA Cup exit. If they had been in the Champions League, they would probably not have performed as well in the Premier League. So expect Manshafter STD to be favourites for next year's Premier League if they are not in either the Champions League or Europa League.

Luckily, I can turn my Arsenal emotions off and not worry about my two new gorgeous Ukrainian pole dancers. Arsenal may not get "oil"ed up, but my pole is! Hahaha.

Steve Palmer1 says: April 3, 2014 at 6:32 pm
Evening all, a good look into the future. I wondered if you ever thought about why oil men who don’t have a history in football actually got involved in the first place. Many oil-producing nations are places where sand and not much else were there. Oil starts to run out, and Arabs start to see what they have to sell when it completely runs out.

One Arab discusses with another the idea of choosing a holiday destination due to its year-round hot climate. The other suggests they might not have enough land for it to be worthwhile, leading them to propose reclaiming land from the sea. After investing billions into the project, islands and hotels are built. However, half of England starts flooding regularly, prompting the Arabs to visit and watch a local game. One Arab remarks on how many people watch it, while the other notes that many come to play. They decide they should invest in football. The lesson concludes with a question: If an "Arab" were to die with dwindling wealth shared among 30 wives and 60 children, would any of them be interested in running a football club in a cold climate prone to flooding? The Cockie Monster adds: Oil runs out!……

It will have no effect on their wealth once the oil runs out; they have enough sand to supply Jewsons for thousands of years! 

GunnerN5 says: April 3, 2014 at 6:50 pm

Team news: Who is fit to face Everton? Arsène Wenger has revealed the latest team news ahead of Sunday’s Premier League clash against Everton:

- Aaron Ramsey and Nacho Monreal are back training with the squad, so that is good news. Hopefully they will be available for Sunday.
- Diaby is back on the pitches, so that is good news.

As for any others... 
At the moment, that is all because the other injured players are not back: Wilshere and Ozil are still out.

Everybody else is alright.

On Laurent Koscielny...
He is still out. The earliest he will be back is next week; the latest is the week after.

On Wilshere and Walcott...
They are alright, doing well. It is still early for them. Of course, for Theo, the season is finished, but Jack is progressing well.

On Mesut Ozil...
The FA Cup will be too soon for him, but he will hopefully be back soon after that.

Copyright 2014 The Arsenal Football Club plc.

Permission to use quotations from this article is granted subject to appropriate credit being given to Steve Palmer as the source. April 3, 2014 at 6:55 pm: Blinding, CM 🙂 April 3, 2014 at 7:00 pm: Big Raddy says, "Steve, it hasn’t worked that way with horse racing. Once the Arabs invest and take an interest, they get completely involved and for the long-term. But inevitably this leads to the exclusion of all but the super-rich." April 3, 2014 at 7:01 pm: Gööner In Exile says, "Evening all, a fine conversation starter SurfDude. For me it’s a no, but then I’ve often been one to cut my nose off to spite my face. The thought of rolling in petro dollars is not appealing, as others have said, who next? When everyone's funded that way will it be an even playing field? Maybe but it won’t see us any better off than we are now." April 3, 2014 at 7:04 pm: Steve Palmer says, "Very true BR, but the shit is good for roses.."

The Cookie Monster says: April 3, 2014 at 7:15 pm I saw on newsnow that scientists at the University of Leicester have discovered that Noah's Ark could have carried 70,000 animals without sinking if built from the dimensions in the Bible! ………. That’s 33,716 more than they get on WHL, and that ship has been sinking lower every year since 1961!

TERRY MANCINI HAIR TRANSPLANT says: April 3, 2014 at 7:15 pm Cornwall, hahahaha. Yeah, I hear you Redders. At first, I was skeptical about the Chelsea/City models, but now I'm knackered from complaining. Besides, Cornwall never stops going on about how the end is nigh without gifts of money, so I’m half expecting that next time I see him, he’ll be donning a placard. Hahaha.

Redders, I know you’re like me—a student of dreams. The other night, I had this really vivid dream that has finally settled my feelings towards Tottenham. It was set in the near future where an authoritarian government passed an edict to segregate Arsenal and Tottenham fans geographically….

For some strange reason, I was living with a guy named Spencer, who rather disturbingly went by the nickname "Chum." Outside our house, there were two coaches: one for Gonners and another for Spurs. Spencer was on the Spurs team. We tried to tell the thought police that we couldn't live apart, but they threatened to spray hairspray on Chum's wig, rendering us powerless. On the Gonner coach, I could see the Queen, Winston Churchill, Jeremy Beadle, and an assortment of good types. At this point, Spencer was sobbing with fear. On his coach, a fat bald chav was giving a moon dance, Steve Archibald was cupping his balls, and a woman wearing a horrendous tracksuit was yelling, "They better take us somewhere F*ucking nice, like Edmonton."

"Who nicked me bleeding fags?" As the two coaches embarked on their journeys, I was greeted with warmth and kindness. However, when I glanced over to see the departing Tottenham coach, I saw Spencer spread-eagled on the floor. A large, unpleasant individual—whom I believe to be the former Tottenham player Graham Roberts—was positioned atop him, removing his belt as another man edged closer. The women in tracksuits could be heard cackling behind us: "Do it, do it." In the distance, faintly echoed the voices of Chas and Dave singing their classic song "Rabbit," and a yell that was unfamiliar to me, making me uncertain whether it came from Spencer or Roberts.

Steve Palmer1 says: April 3, 2014 at 7:24 pm  
Boy, wish I had dreams like that. All I have are flying dreams where I always get caught in a net. Must be some kind of meaning somewhere.

Arnie says: April 3, 2014 at 7:25 pm  
Brilliant Terry..

Arnie says: April 3, 2014 at 7:26 PM GN5: Now, that name Diaby rings a bell; where have I heard it before? 😛

Arnie says: April 3, 2014 at 7:27 PM A French site claims Abou Diaby is injured, but fortunately, it's just an April Fool's joke. 

The Cockie Monster says: April 3, 2014 at 7:49 PM Hahaha, Stretch! I too had a weird dream the other night. It was when you, me, and VCC went to last season’s Reading game. We were embracing each other as Gervinho scored the first goal. As I looked to my side, there was a gorgeous woman with her husband. She smiled and gave me a high-five! 

Then Cazorla scores, and instead of hugging you and VCC, I give both of you a high-five and embrace the gorgeous woman in front of her bemused husband!

Giroud then scores a third, and I don’t even bother to high-five either of you. Instead, I start French-kissing the gorgeous woman, and her husband just gives an uncomfortable giggle!

Robson-Kanu then scores for Reading, and I hiss at you and VCC before starting to comfort the gorgeous woman by caressing her ample bosom, shocking her husband! Arteta then scores from a penalty, and I can feel VCC's attempt to celebrate again, but I'm too quick and nut him; he falls back and pulls his syrup off. I then turn my attention to the gorgeous woman, with whom I feel I have started a relationship, and begin to make love to her! The husband accepts it with ease and even comments that I am getting more out of her than he ever did! The crowd then starts to sing as my actions are replayed on the giant plasma screens…. "It's Cockie Monster… Monster Fluffy Cockie! He’s by far the greatest lover! In block 100, seat 69, row Zee!"

If we have to get some massively wealthy trucker on board, let's say he made his fortune in something more questionable, like drugs, prostitution, or even accountancy. Gööner In Exile says: April 3, 2014 at 8:10 pm Steve I think Raddy is partly correct with horse racing; there has always been camel racing (though it was outlawed when people realized young children were often used as jockeys). They just replaced them with robots. Part of the Mansour plan is to increase tourism, a move reliant on diversifying their economy away from oil in the future. Hence, Etihad's sponsorship and the goodwill work around the stadium are all part of creating a global brand not solely dependent on oil. Big Raddy says: April 3, 2014 at 8:15 pm Some great stuff this evening. Had me really laughing. chas “something cool like drugs, prostitution, or accountancy.”

🙂 Steve Palmer1 says: April 3, 2014 at 8:17 PM
Seems to me that many supporters like the thought of muddling through without Arab money buying success, but we have been influenced by oil money ourselves with a stadium called the Emirates in Islington.

Kelsey says: April 3, 2014 at 8:28 PM
Having read every comment today, there are so many diverse topics and opinions as rarely seen before that I have actually forgotten what I was about to comment on.

Kelsey says: April 3, 2014 at 8:32 PM
Oh yes, talking about ticket prices the other day, this has nothing to do with it, but the old Battersea Power Station is now being redeveloped and the cheapest studio or one-bedroom flat there is 1 million pounds.

Steve Palmer1 says: April 3, 2014 at 9:01 PM
Very apt, I thought, Kelsey. Only the Arabs can afford them.

Gööner In Exile says: April 3, 2014 at 10:09 PM
Is Emirates Airlines funded by Oil Money?

I guess it is, but it is hard to argue that the deal struck for the original naming rights was anything other than "arms-length." Just look at how we had to take such a low seasonal rate (from both Emirates and Nike for kit manufacturing) to ensure cash up front.

I’d actually be interested to know how the stadium rights for the Etihad (City of Manchester Stadium) are split. I thought City still rented their ground from the Council, so surely any rights should go to the Council, not the club?

neamman says: April 3, 2014 at 11:06 pm  
wahhh. this conversation is way too deep for me!!! I just know I am stuck with Arsenal and they are stuck with me!!!

Rasp says: April 3, 2014 at 11:09 pm  
GN5, if you’re reading, can you email me the pictures for tomorrow’s post separately as image files please. I normally find them on the internet but some of this week’s are obviously rare.

Rasp says: April 3, 2014 at 11:36 pm  
It's OK, I've found a way round it – small loss of quality though

GunnerN5 says:.

April 4, 2014 at 12:05 am

Sorry Rasp, I just signed on.

Domhuail says:
April 4, 2014 at 3:58 am

IMHO Arsenal will continue to thrive whether or not other clubs "oil up" as you say, and here’s why:

1) AFC's scouting is still bringing in great future talent. They are likely to sell some of this in order to afford new transfers that allow them to match the oil-rich clubs.
2) Playing beautiful football will ensure that they can compete even against the oil-rich clubs because there is no guarantee that the large egos brought into those clubs will play well together. City's case is a point in proof; it took them five years to get it right maybe!
3) If other clubs "oil up," competition will shift from the top 4 to the top 6-7, where any one member of this group can win against any other member, unless that club’s spending is truly astronomical. Buying Messi and Ronaldo to play on the same team would be a very risky investment.
4) The great leveller on the field remains the officials and their performance.

Any single day, even the best teams can suffer from poor referee calls. With so many clubs now paying exorbitant fees for top players, there will be a significant drop in overall quality and an increase in mistakes (think Torres, Carroll, etc.). This will lead to very average players suddenly receiving extraordinary paydays, causing a feeding frenzy among teams trying to boost their chances of winning titles. This trend will dilute the quality of football.

Arsenal’s approach is likely to stand the test of time, but others may struggle with this dynamic. MickyDidIt89 says: April 4, 2014 at 5:44 am

Money-wise, we are as vulgar and obscene as anyone else. We accept sponsorship money from various sources (I cannot explain the moral distinction between oil money and what we take from Barclays). If you have a problem with this kind of funding and support Arsenal, then acknowledge your hypocrisy by brushing your morals under the table and admitting to having a guilty pleasure.

MickyDidIt89 says: April 4, 2014 at 6:06 am
Nuts. Long comment, but the beginning is enough.

arnie says: April 4, 2014 at 6:16 am
Morning chums. Off on my travels again…

This time, it's just Cardiff nearby. Participation will be minimal for the next two days. 😦 I'll catch up later to read GN5’s stories. 🙂 MickyDidIt89 says: April 4, 2014 at 6:34 am

Last one.  
arnie says: April 4, 2014 at 6:35 am
No hypocrisy, IMO. All different shades of grey. Some acceptable, others not so much. 🙂  

arnie says: April 4, 2014 at 6:35 am
wow. 🙂 

MickyDidIt89 says: April 4, 2014 at 6:46 am
Oh jeepers, we surf tonight probably in the lowest sea temperature of 8 degrees. In the Arctic, it’s 0-1! Throw in some minus shitballs wind and aaaargh.  

arnie says: April 4, 2014 at 6:49 am
Doesn't sound that brilliant to me, but must be fun as well. I'm blissfully ignorant of such pleasures. I enjoy the clips you and Chas link to though. 🙂  

arnie says: April 4, 2014 at 6:50 am
I like your new name, SurfDude, courtesy GiE. My aim is to be a SurfDude like you in my next life..

MickyDidIt89 says: April 4, 2014 at 6:55 am

Morning Arnie Chas said the other day that it was "cool." I absolutely promise you, I have never felt less cool than when surfing. Next to me is someone half my age, super fit, with long blonde hair, and 100 times better. Not a good look at all.

MickyDidIt89 says: April 4, 2014 at 6:59 am

Now for the last surf comment. My son and I have often talked about small battery-powered heat wires through a suit so that you could wear something thinner in the winter. Just read this: "The idea for a heated wetsuit has been around for some time, but our solution is beautifully simple. We have integrated into several products a system of removable, reusable heat pads. These can be activated while in the water when the winter chill starts to set in. The extra warmth in the crucial kidney area gives up to an hour of added surfing time." Oh good, as long as it can keep my kidneys going just a little longer so I get extra surf time, I'd be happy then to die!

stevepalmer1 says: April 4, 2014 at 6:59 am

Supporters wanting marquee signings like Mesut Ozil at £42 million and Gareth Bale at £86 million will not care where the money comes from. After Ozil's record signing, supporters wanted more signings in the winter window, and many felt that Arsenal had let them down. I, as well as lots of others, felt that at Christmas we had a chance to clean up, but because we never "manned up," we left ourselves vulnerable. When you look at what goes through the turnstiles—say £50 million—it shows that after wages and overheads, it is almost impossible for a club to buy more than one player. Sponsorship is a big part of football revenue, and TV rights also pay out big bucks, but when a club's profits are only around £50 million, it shows that big spending is not sustainable. Arsenal, I think, seems to be run very well, but I feel that marquee signings are a flash in the pan. As you say, if we injected more cash and sponsored ourselves, FFP would not come into play.

Many moan about our owner, Kroenke, but at least we know mostly where his money comes from. But do we really care? Big Raddy says: April 4, 2014 at 7:07 am

Morning All,

Micky, $6.55 - That is the target when waking up beside the next Mrs. Raddy (just joking dear – in the one-in-a-million chance you read this or any of your friends do!)

Big Raddy says: April 4, 2014 at 7:13 am

I believe that AFC runs at a loss. We make up for that loss through profits from player trading. Is this not so? In which case, AFC must find bigger and better commercial revenue to stop the ebb of players out of the club. This summer we shall release some big earners – Diaby, Dick, Bendtner, Fabianski, and a number of reserves.

Just realized… I haven’t got a clue what my point is 😀

Kelsey says: April 4, 2014 at 7:16 am

The following questions were set in last year’s GED examination. These are genuine answers (from 16-year-olds) ………and they WILL breed.

Name the four seasons.
Spring, Summer, Autumn, Winter

The sun shines down on the leaves and causes them to transpire.

What causes the tides in the oceans?
A. The tides are caused by the gravitational forces of the Earth and Moon. The moon's gravity pulls on the water, creating the high and low tides, with the Sun also having an influence but to a lesser degree.

In a democratic society, how important are elections?
A. Elections are crucial in a democratic society as they allow citizens to participate in choosing their leaders and shaping the direction of their government.

Name a major disease associated with cigarettes.
A. Lung cancer is a major disease associated with cigarette smoking.

What is artificial insemination?
A. Artificial insemination is a reproductive technique where sperm is inserted into a female's uterus or cervix using medical procedures to achieve fertilization.

How can you delay milk turning sour?
A. Refrigerating the milk will significantly extend its shelf life and delay souring.

What are the main 20 parts of the body categorized as, and how are they divided?
A. The human body is typically divided into three major parts: the head, neck, trunk (which includes the chest and abdomen), and limbs. Each part contains various organs and structures essential for bodily functions.

What is the fibula?
A. The fibula is one of the two bones found in the lower leg, located laterally to the tibia. It is involved in ankle stabilization but does not bear as much weight.

What is the most common form of birth control?
A. The most common forms of birth control include oral contraceptives (birth control pills), intrauterine devices (IUDs), and condoms.

Most people prevent contraception by using condoms (That would work). Q. Julius Seizure, I came, I saw, I had a fit. 

Q. What is a terminal illness? When you are sick and know there's no cure.

What does the word ‘benign’ mean? A. Benign means being non-cancerous or harmless (brilliant). 

MickyDidIt89 says: April 4, 2014 at 7:23 am Ha ha, Raddy at 7:07—I thought you might be able to turn my theory around to more pressing matters.

Steve Loved your piece yesterday about the desert boys running out of oil, but you lost me completely when you suggested it may be diluted as a result of sharing it amongst their many wives. They haven’t fallen for that equal rights nonsense 🙂 

Big Raddy says: April 4, 2014 at 7:26 am Benign 😀 😀

MickyDidIt89 says: April 4, 2014 at 7:26 am 😈

Kelsey chas says: April 4, 2014 at 7:27 am Micky Are you telling me you don’t feel cool with your board beneath your feet, skimming through the water like a smoking sea lion?

Big Raddy says: April 4, 2014 at 7:28 am “equal rights nonsense” LOL

April 4, 2014 at 7:32 am  
Don’t you think it’s also about Arabs wanting more footing and prestige in the Western world/Europe, like Russians and now Chinese? I wouldn’t be surprised if an English Premier League club were taken over by a Chinese consortium. However, we have the Venkeys who, when they bought Blackburn, didn’t even know that clubs could be relegated (that’s no joke; ask Shard).

MickyDidIt89 says: April 4, 2014 at 7:32 am  
Chas Cool? No. However, things could change soon. In the winter, I’m in for 90 minutes, but in the summer, longer, and what I miss is a fag. Now, when you’ve paddled out, you sit on your board waiting for “your” wave. This summer, I plan to be the first surfer to whip a fag out of a unique waterproof pouch and light it up. So, ask me again in July 🙂 

MickyDidIt89 says: April 4, 2014 at 7:47 am  
Kelsey, I think you are spot on about the prestige in the case of AU. People say it’s about profit, but I don’t agree. Sure, it’s a good, safe’ish investment, but I reckon AU likes two things..

Money stashed in the UK, and buying into the establishment given that he’s a resident. Also, agree that the Chinese money will come. Give me an American any day of the week.

MickyDidIt89 says: April 4, 2014 at 7:49 am  
Back in a couple of hours, hopefully to be rewarded by a GN5 Special.

RA says: April 4, 2014 at 7:53 am  
Kelsey, I cannot see what was wrong with any of those answers—not sure about the questions.

kelsey says: April 4, 2014 at 8:32 am  
RA, What questions?

White Bear says: April 4, 2014 at 9:11 am  
Fucking idiot; even I ran out of excuses for this front-bottom peachesgööner.

peachesgööner says: April 4, 2014 at 9:32 am  
Morning all! Amazing post from GunnerN5 …… enjoy. New Post ……………. Visit Website says: August 30, 2014 at 9:16 pm  
It can be an ideal time for you to produce a few ideas for the years to come and it is time for it to be free. I’ve read this post and if I may, I have to tell you some attention-grabbing elements as well as tips.

You might create future reports discussing this article. I must read more about these issues! Leave a comment.

Arsenal News 24/7  
Pages  
About  
AA Arsenal’s Greatest Ever Team  
Be our Guest  
Contact us  
Room 101  
The ‘C’ Word  
Trolls  
Video Library

Recent Posts  
A season to forget or build on? Our squad…Tierney to be kept? The end of the transfer window is looming large and…

Arteta wants new recruits…

Spain vs England in the final? England on the right path to the Euro Final

Who to replace Ramsdale and who can challenge the Gabriel-Saliba duo at CB?

The end for Hale End in our starting XI?

Where do we need to strengthen and who could join us?

Who will leave AFC and do you want to see leave from our first squad?

Season Award with a caveat...

Authors on Arsenal Arsenal Archives

May 2025 (1)
September 2024 (1)
August 2024 (1)
July 2024 (2)
June 2024 (3)
May 2024 (4)
April 2024 (3)
March 2024 (2)
February 2024 (3)
January 2024 (2)
December 2023 (1)
November 2023 (1)
October 2023 (4)
September 2023 (5)
August 2023 (4)
July 2023 (1)
June 2023 (4)
April 2023 (3)
March 2023 (1)
February 2023 (5)
January 2023 (6)
December 2022 (3)
November 2022 (1)
October 2022 (5)
September 2022 (7)
August 2022 (9)
July 2022 (6)
June 2022 (5)
May 2022 (14)
April 2022 (10)
March 2022 (12)
February 2022 (12)
January 2022 (7)
December 2021 (13)
November 2021 (10)
October 2021 (18)
September 2021 (8)
August 2021 (13)
July 2021 (6)
June 2021 (16)
May 2021 (28)
April 2021 (19)
March 2021 (31)
February 2021 (26)
January 2021 (29)
December 2020 (21)

November 2020 (22)
October 2020 (19)
September 2020 (15)
August 2020 (16)
July 2020 (16)
June 2020 (9)
March 2020 (14)
February 2020 (29) <--- Corrected from 28 to 29
January 2020 (27)
December 2019 (25)
November 2019 (20)
October 2019 (21)
September 2019 (23)
August 2019 (31) <--- Corrected from 30 to 31
July 2019 (31) <--- Corrected from 28 to 31
June 2019 (16)
May 2019 (30)
April 2019 (30)
March 2019 (31)
February 2019 (28)
January 2019 (31)
December 2018 (28)
November 2018 (29)
October 2018 (31)
September 2018 (30)
August 2018 (31)
July 2018 (31) <--- Corrected from 21 to 31
June 2018 (18)
May 2018 (16)
April 2018 (25)
March 2018 (23)
February 2018 (28)
January 2018 (31)
December 2017 (15)
November 2017 (17)
October 2017 (13)
September 2017 (18)
August 2017 (14)
July 2017 (31) <--- Corrected from 7 to 31
June 2017 (29) <--- Corrected from 7 to 29
May 2017 (15)
April 2017 (17)
March 2017 (14)
February 2017 (13)
January 2017 (23)
December 2016 (18)
November 2016 (18)
October 2016 (19)
September 2016 (20)
August 2016 (16)
July 2016 (31) <--- Corrected from 7 to 31
June 2016 (10)
May 2016 (15)
April 2016 (22)
March 2016 (24)
February 2016 (29)
January 2016 (30)
December 2015 (24)
November 2015 (24)
October 2015 (28)
September 2015 (21)
August 2015 (21)
July 2015 (31) <--- Corrected from 10 to 31
June 2015 (16)
May 2015 (20)
April 2015 (28)
March 2015 (25)
February 2015 (27)
January 2015 (29)
December 2014 (31)
November 2014 (29)
October 2014 (28)
September 2014 (29)
August 2014 (31)
July 2014 (31) <--- Corrected from 24 to 31
June 2014 (27)

May 2014 (31) April 2014 (30) March 2014 (31) February 2014 (28) January 2014 (31) December 2013 (31) November 2013 (30) October 2013 (31) September 2013 (30) August 2013 (31) July 2013 (31) June 2013 (30) May 2013 (31) April 2013 (30) March 2013 (31) February 2013 (28) January 2013 (31) December 2012 (31) November 2012 (30) October 2012 (31) September 2012 (30) August 2012 (31) July 2012 (31) June 2012 (30) May 2012 (31) April 2012 (30) March 2012 (31) February 2012 (29) January 2012 (31) December 2011 (31) November 2011 (30) October 2011 (31) September 2011 (30) August 2011 (31) July 2011 (31) June 2011 (30) May 2011 (31) April 2011 (30) March 2011 (31) February 2011 (28) January 2011 (31)

Blog Stats
7,554,131 hits

Club News
Vivienne Lia joins Nottingham Forest on loan
Arsenal select 25/26 Champions League squad
Vote for our men's Player of the Month for August
Premier League game against Crystal Palace moved
Date for Port Vale League Cup trip confirmed
Renee Slegers on brink of WSL record
Jessie Gale joins Portsmouth on loan

Internationals: World Cup qualifiers for 15 stars

How to watch Arsenal Women v London City Lionesses

Recent Comments
Aaron on A season to forget or build…
rogerfirdanz on Arsenal Obsessed?

Memories from... RC78 on A Season to Forget or Build... Kaka Hoki on If You Booed After Yesterday... Veronica Dantas on 1930 – The First World Cup... Daniel Dantas on 1930 – The First World Cup... Hành trình của van Persie on There is no ‘I’ in Team, but Everyone Matters... allezkev on Our Squad...Tierney to Be... VP on The End of the Transfer Window… RC78 on The End of the Transfer Window… LB on Arteta Wants New Recruits… LB on The End of the Transfer Window… LB on The End of the Transfer Window… RC78 on The End of the Transfer Window… RC78 on The End of the Transfer Window… Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com. Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy. Comment Subscribe Subscribed arsenalarsenal.net Join 956 other subscribers Sign me up Already have a WordPress.com account? Log in now. net Subscribe Subscribed Sign up Log in Copy shortlink Report this content View post in reader Manage subscriptions Collapse this bar %d people like this.