In Lurelin village, there's a guy you can gamble with.
For 100 rupees, you can open 1 of 3 chest. There's 300 rupees in one of them.

So just save before talking to him, place your bet and your chances are 1/3. If you lose load your save. If you win, save and repeat.

Took me 5 minutes to reach 3000 rupees.

The Lurelin village is in the South-East corner of the map.


Here's the location : http://imgur.com/gSgbWkM Nintendo isn't huge on fixing bugs like this, just look at Mario Kart. Thanks for the tip! I could make use of that.

Armor's expensive. It's not a bug, it's a gambling game, you're allowed to play it as many times as you want whether you win or lose.  An update, you don't actually have to reload your save. The old man actually gives you an audio clue telling you which chest the gold rupee(100 bet) is in.

When he says "ooh", it will be in the middle chest.
When he says "uhh" it will be in the right chest.

I haven't heard any audio cues for the left chest(could always be 1 rupee), but listening for the cue gave me the 300 rupee every time in a row without having to reload the game. We can estimate how quickly rupees can be generated by this method.  Assume the following:

1. The chest containing the gold rupee on any given try is random, with all chests equally likely.  I'm not going to comment here on whether there might be patterns (people do sometimes see patterns where there aren't any - we humans are pretty good at that ;) ).  So, the probability of making a 200 rupee profit on a single try is 1/3.
2. It takes a certain amount of time to have a try, and then either save or load depending on whether you win or lose.  From my measurements, a reasonable upper bound on a try (either winning or losing) is 40s, including the subsequent save/load.  You may press the buttons faster than I do however!
3. Each try is probabilistically independent of any other try, so that e.g. getting the gold rupee on your previous try doesn't influence whether or not you'll get the gold rupee on your current try.

I'll define a "round" to be a succession of tries until the gold rupee is found (so the final try in a round ends in a save, and any earlier tries in a round end in a load of a previous save).  It is straightforward to figure out the expected (mean) number of tries E(T) in a round, where T is the number of tries.  T is 1 with probability 1/3, 2 with probability (1/3)(2/3), 3 with probability (1/3)(2/3)^2 etc.  This gives:

E(T) = (1/3) * ( 1 + 2 * (2/3) + 3 * (2/3)^2 + 4 * (2/3)^3 + ...)

Summing this infinite series is easy - it's just an appropriate derivative of the sum of a geometric series.  The answer is 3 (and if you add up the terms above by hand you can pretty much see they start to converge to 3).

So, a round takes 3 tries on average.  This means a round takes 120s on average (at least with me pressing the buttons!).  Given that a round generates 200 rupees, this is 200 rupees in 120s, or a mean "rupee generation rate" RGR of 1.67 rupees per second, or **100 rupees per minute**.  This is only a mean RGR, of course: you e.g. might have a lucky streak where you consistently get the gold rupee.

Final notes:

1. I've not done the calculations for the standard deviation of the RGR, or other higher moments.  This answer shouldn't be too volatile however, and will obviously settle down to the mean rate the more rounds you do, so it probably isn't worth calculating the higher moments.
2. It would be interesting to see how this RGR compares with other methods for rupee farming in Zelda.  Could ore mining generate rupees more quickly, perhaps?  For a fair comparison, however, the ore mining method needs to take account of all the time required, including selling the ore.  I'll leave this as an exercise for the reader, if anyone is interested! I was wondering how long it would take somebody to find a money exploit You could do pretty much the same in ALttP. Or are you saying the "winning" chest doesn't change when you reload? Inb4 v1.1 update  1) I think the guy here also has the alcohol mentioned in the ESRB.

2) ~~The order seems to consistently be 2 - 3 - 1 for me so far.  Still save between rounds though just in case.~~ just kidding, got a 5x lucky streak though. Unlikely. It took me 26 seconds to place my bet, choose the middle chest, get my prize, and talk to Cloyne again getting back to picking my bet. In 5 minutes that gives you enough time for 12 (rounding up) bets. 

12 bets x 200 (winnings - cost to play) = 2400. That's assuming you win every round.  They won't do anything to change this. Keep in mind that in OoT you could use the lens to cheat that chest game too.  I don't know if I'm very unlucky or they fixed it. Tried it multiple times and only won once. I played it for 40 minutes exactly when i look at my saved time and current time. Hoooly shit, I will be doing this as soon as I get home.  im too tired to do this now, but I will be heading there tomorrow...thanks for the tip! My luck is terrible, so this was not a time effect method of making money. 

You can make enough just playing the game, buying critters off of Beetle every time you see him, turning those into exilers and selling them back for between 60-150 rupees. I would never do such a thing, but if I did, I'd say thank you, and that this saved me hours! im just glad to know the old man isnt scamming me hah.. i stopped after my first 10 rupee bet when i only got 1 back. i guess ill give it another shot where exactly is the npc? the videos ive seen just show him right in front of the building
 Well, for me it wouldn't be really fun to have basically endless rupees. I think it's  ruining a bit of fun. :/