It's already incredibly tough to defend a 2 man push on your own against plenty of comps, but with the change to tower prio this will be impossible.

I feel like this will punish less coordinated teams even more than it already did.

As someone who did b2gm plenty of times, this change alone will make solo q even more atrocious...Easy to dive towers with only 2 people when the defender has 50 armor and can just clear the wave? Should be able to defend more confidently with a perma 50 armor why do you do b2gm? this is a massive buff to being under tower by yourself this is a massive nerf to 5 people being under tower. You are clearly clueless to why this is a bad change so im very doubtful about your b2gm claims 2v2 under a fort will favor the defenders still imo. 3v3 probably not, depends on comps Maybe and just hear me out it'll be so bad that it can finally put a dent in the amount of people doing Bronze to GM. You guys will stay at your actual ranks for once and I dunno maybe somehow your inability to find matches at high ranks will be remedied a bit because you guys arent' all smurfing at the same time. It used to be like this for ages. I don't see a problem let's try it out before we whine. "I feel like this will punish less coordinated teams even more than it already did."  
Yes, this will push us to improve They really wanna kill the game This shouldn't change that interaction often except to make defending *easier* unless you have no clear, which means you shouldn't be the one defending a push like that. It really punishes picking bad heroes like Nova more than anything. Now you get 50 armor to survive while you kill the wave or while teammates show up. Most heroes that do fort dives like that already didn't care about a few fort shots. This shifts the burden around a bit but makes traditional divers *much* less threatening. 1v2 and even 2v2 under fort should be a buff to defenders. Possibly even a buff for larger groups, but I'll wait to see how things shake out. If I'm reading the changes properly, you can just yolo with tank and buy time for the armor shit to wear off for your dps to just kill them

Idk why they're changing core aspects of the game this late. It's fucking stupid. If your wall dies and there's some diving DPS in the game then GL solo laning/soaking anything Why are you whining about this impacting your b2gm adventures? Development isn’t always predicable but it’s an attempt to improve

Look at POE2. They went from unanimous praise to exclusively negative reviews after a poorly received update. Now it’s back on track and widely praised again 

Give it a chance Its so funny that the top comments arent even about the changes but crying about b2gm