This whole genre seems like a nightmare to balance because everyone only wants the TRUE Arpg experience but no one can agree on what that really is. It would help if they actually nerfed enemy movespeed and quantity. You can't do 'meaningful' soulslike combat when enemies swarm you like a vampire survivors horde, no amount of toying with hp values is gonna change that. The game it seems GGG wants to make is No Rest for the Wicked PoE Edition but unless they actually build in active blocking/parry/useful dodging mechanics along with stamina systems for enemies and bosses. They can't make the game they are trying to make.

Another issue for them is when you build for a more player skill game, the normal barriers to keeping people on the grind can begin to vanish. Because then content can be completed on skill alone and make certain things no longer worth grinding for. Which means less money for a F2P game.

This definitely feels like you have to choose one or the other type of situation, you can't have both. I like the slower, methodical combat, especially when I know PoE 1 is right there if I ever want to blast. The big issue right now, besides general balance and missing content, is that the monsters aren't really playing the same game. They are quick, they are many, and they can hit very hard. They are the same quality of monster as in PoE 1, but maybe with better animations. 

By the time you reach endgame, because the monsters are like this, the game transitions away from the methodical struggle toward a blast-or-die philosophy. It's exacerbated by all the timed mechanics at endgame, too. 

On a personal note, I think I'd just like act 1 to be a little bit more generous in terms of progression. Skill gems feel especially rare early on, and it can feel super bad when you spend your only gems on skills you end up disliking. They want to blend things that just don't work together. 

They want the campaign to be a long multi hour story that people take their time and enjoy which is perfect for a single playthrough, but they also want people to come back every season and are asking them to play the same exact 40+ hour campaign over and over again. 

They want slow and meaningful combat, but they also want an endgame like POE1 with large maps and tons of mobs. 

They are trying to make a game that appeals to two completely different audiences. They need to just put their foot down, and say "this is the game we are going to make" and accept that not everyone is going to play it, instead of trying to ease POE1 players into a game that they are not going to like Not everyone. But sadly, in our minds "ARPG's" are fast blast click and delete shit 3 screens away from you. Which I personally like from time to time, but I would also love a slower ARPG game like they tried to show in the trailer with more meaningfull boss fights and even monster fights all around.

The problem as someone stated in the commentary as well, you can't do that with 100 monsters swarming you. You just can't. 

If you want slow combat you have to make smaller levels with way lower amount of enemies, and all the fights to be a small challenge. Sure you can still have some groups of trash mobs that die instantly so you can feel like have some power, but other than that it needs to be slower everywhere.

Sadly, it will never happen. I would pay instantly for an ARPG game that is slow and have meaningfull combat like they showed in POE2 trailers. The fast ones have their place, but I played so much that I'm bored of them and I feel like all of them are all the same. You just make a build and then it doesn't even matter because you click on screen and shit dies, and at some point you also die god knows why. You adapt by building more resitences to some element or something and rise and repeat. It's fun, but when you do it in every ARPG game it gets boring, at least for me.

POE2 was something I really wanted to buy and love, and then I saw more and more gameplay, and is just yet another ARPG game. Sure, it starts amazing, slower and hard fights, but then is just the usual.  

It's also a problem with the fan base. As I said, we have "ARPG = fast gameplay" for some reason, but in the definition of an ARPG game there's nothing like that, but everyone's expecting it because that's how we were trained by years of ARPG games. If anyone tries to do something different, people who may not like ARPG because of the fast pace, won't check it out because they think it's gonna be fast, and the ones who actually wants fast pace won't play it. The main problem I've found is that they've nerfed player speed and power, while keeping the enemy mobs just as fast so it's so easy to just get overwhelmed and nibbled to death.

I want encounters to be a bit more meaningful than just instantly clearing the screen, but when I'm finding white mobs annoying rather than just fodder there's a problem. Helldivers 2 went through the same thing and the devs just gave up and made it a horde shooter where everyone can be a one man army. I mean,.. Wouldn't the logical approach be to let the white enemies be as they were, make the elites and bosses way harder (and maybe more common) and make sure there's not too many white enemies around when you fight those elites? The whole genre’s attempt to make every encounter “meaningful” in recent years has really turned me off. Outside of boss fights moving out of red telegraphs is not really more fun than clicking on enemies. It gets really tedious in games that are meant to be played for so long where you are meant to kill so many things. How about slowing the game the fuck down, up the loot, and reduce the size of maps by 50%? That's a good start.

When you have 10 aoes, 3 ground effects and two  groups of mobs LEAPING at you the moment you enter their agro range and your dodge is slower than their animations and movement speed, something is wrong with your vision. For me the worst part of a lot of ARPG combat across the board is not health or speed of combat but the lack of reactivity. I feel like Titan Quest and Diablo 3 were the best we have had in terms of feeling like you were actually hitting enemies and being part of the world. I dunno why we have regressed back to basically no physics interactions with the world As someone who has played both PoE games on and off since 2013, GGG has always struggled with trying to balance the game they WANT to make with the game that players WANT to play. POE2 Early Access was rough and bumpy and had all the signs of not being ready for the main stage, but it was wildly popular and the things that it did right mostly overshadowed the things that it did wrong. The .2 update has been, in many ways, a massive step backwards in overall game feel. In an ARPG where you can't skip the campaign, deliberately making the campaign slow and plodding is a weird choice.  I understand and even agree with the sentiment of wanted combat to be reactive and engaging and having players delete bosses instantly can be draining from a design perspective.  I personally love most of the boss fights in POE2 and am happy to have them last a little longer....but I don't want every fight with normal mobs to be an elongated affair.  

Yes, single clicks clearing entire screens should be considered the absolute zenith of any build in POE2. People should be allowed to do that with time and investment. But getting stun locked by packs of normal monsters and having random rares take 30+ seconds to kill on top of neutering loot to the point where you can't even craft during the campaign is just...such an odd hill to die on. Let people tear through normal monsters, and approach rare enemies with caution but still have them killable in 10ish seconds. Let the boss fights be slow and reactive and tense. I don't want to be 100% locked in while just clearing trash enemies.  

And for fuck's sake, give me a form of crafting that isn't just a different flavor of slot machine. The biggest issue where every other issue originates from is:

#####Loot

The first 3 acts you don't find enough loot. You have no options. No upgrades. If you are stuck at a boss that for example deals fire damage, you have no options to somehow switch to fire resistance. If your weapon sucks than you are gimped.

You need to find a lot more upgrades and options, than you actually scale well enough so other issues aren't that big any more.

In PoE1 this wasn't an issue because skill gems would level. So you could always level gems to increase power / defenses. There was also crafting options. Here not so much. I like it a lot. I didn't like PoE 1 but I'm a big fan of what they are trying to do. It's not perfect yet but I see what they are getting at. I know I am a huge minority. I hope they stick to making the gameplay more meaningful and weighty. If i wanted to insta delete an entire maps worth of enemies i would just play literally any other arpg. A core problem of ARPGs that is like a trap for developers is that at some point players are seemingly “expecting” to faceroll content for gobs of loot.  Anything a developer does to make combat more involved or engaging combat beyond clicking on dudes and hoovering up loot is ultimately antithetical to that expectation.

This mentality *also* leads to the bevy of build guide websites and optimal build guides and content creators telling people how to play games in specific ways until you have people waiting to play new seasons or leagues until the newest loot filter or build guide tier list comes out. And then they copy someone else’s build and go complain online when they get booty clapped by an enemy that has a mechanic slightly more complex than “runs at you and attacks” because they don’t actually understand anything about the game.

Now I’m not saying that there aren’t plenty of issues with POEII as it stands but ARPGs are the classic example of players optimizing the fun out of anything.  Everyone wants to be the guy killing endgame bosses, but no one wants to put in the work to learn the game and its mechanics.  They just want to be able to do the thing immediately. I really enjoyed playing Act 1 of PoE2 at release. I wish I didn't get distracted and got back to it before updates. I really like the overall vibe of PoE2. I like how it plays when it works. I like the slower pace. 

But sadly it all falls apart when regular monsters take forever to kill. When game asks me to perform a very specific very precise actions against the pack of 30 mobs. How are you supposed to active parry when there are 10 attacks directed at you? How are you supposed to avoid boss attacks dark souls style when boss shoots aoe attacks under itself? How are you supposed to be precise when game feels like your character is running in slippery mud?

I can see what they were thinking about when they were designing the game, but none of their ideas work in reality, and it's very sad because there is a fun game buried under all these mistakes. There is definitely a place for slower, more tactful gameplay, but POE2 is not it. Diablo, as old as the original is, does it well, even if that was likely due to limitations at the time. The expectations need to be clear from the start. Slow and painful does not make combat "meaningful". PoE 2 wants to be dark souls, but unlike in Dark Souls, youre never pushed to actually learn the enemy. They have no elaborate move sets, no timings to learn. If I get shit on by a Dark Souls boss, I can get revenge later after learning its attacks and abusing its weaknesses. Every enemy in PoE 2 just does random bullshit, you're never learning the enemies. This is best illustrated by them adding parrying with the buckler, except it doesn't require any timing whatsoever. You just raise the shield and hope an enemy shoots a projectile close range, thats it.

  
Also, the levels. I feel like you cant have meaningful combat with randomly generate, copy pasted levels like this that are also way too big. Because any enemy can spawn in any map/area, they have to work independant of another. That means they never meaningfully interact with eachother, and every map is basically just a different paint job with more or less annoying layouts. I think having a slow and methodical combat pace in the early game and a face-blastingly fast endgame would be cool. A zero to hero style of progression and power fantasy, if you will. I’m utterly disappointed with GGG lately. I’ve been playing Path of Exile for nearly a decade, aside from some breaks and skipped leagues. They’ve done nothing meaningful against RMT, which has been rampant for years. They never got rid of the major cancer in the game: &gt;!TFT!&lt;. They don’t focus on real improvements, just constant tweaking.

The state of the game was greatly improved with Siege of the Atlas, yet paradoxically, it came alongside one of the worst leagues, Archnemesis, so conversely speaking, after Scourge, the game’s quality went downhill.

What baffles me is how inaccessible some builds are, requiring dozens of mirrors. Regular players can’t even approach that. Loot is throttled by rarity and quantity mechanics, and gated drops from Uber bosses and Delve are a playground for the lucky, the RMTers, the flippers, or the ones running full-blown cartels (cough cough TFT).

Their league content has become laughable. Settlers is scrapped content stitched back together. Necropolis was the worst league in a long time. They have great core systems but fail to integrate them. Archnemesis should have been merged with Metamorph, they were basically the same idea, but instead, it got buried in spaghetti code. Now neither Archnemesis (never went core), nor Metamorphosis (removed from the game).

The nail in the coffin was the promise that PoE2 development wouldn’t affect PoE. That was a blatant lie. We're nearly a year into Settlers and still no new league announcement. They could’ve expanded Phrecia into a full patch, but slapped it together and we, like clowns, accepted it.

PoE2 looks like a misstep. It has no clear appeal, no standout feature. It’s niche and unless they get it absolutely right, it won’t land. GGG is a mess right now, and the Elon Musk stain is still hanging over them. As a casual player who is not playing on coming back until acts 4-6 are done, I was really satisfied with the base game. I never wanted to " just blast monsters", which is why PoE 1 was no fun at all for me.  

That said, for me the biggest problem of the Early Access launch was that 50% or so of skills seemed useless, and a lot of the passive tree nodes were bad as well. Basically, it felt as if you had to invest all of your passive points into one mechanic ( e.g. stun for warrior ) to make that mechanic viable, which meant anything that didn´t have anything to do with that mechanic was rendered unusable for you.  

It seems like they nerfed the broken stuff ( good ), but also nerfed stuff that was just good and made enemies kill you faster? Really random. Why not just buff the awful skills, enemy balance seemed fine to great at launch. Well, DOOM Eternal pretty much does it. Then again, monster are fast ( so is the Slayer ), but monsters have different tactics and not just "aggro and run towards you" Disagree that it's disastrous. It feels really bad to play but I actually stand by nearly every change they did. This level of heavyhanded change was necessary to prevent PoE2 from becoming PoE1.2 and fast. Now I'll wait until they can make the game fun from here. ARPG is a power trip. People want blastin' rooms. If I want to plat Dark Souls, I'll play Dark Souls. You want to make bosses challenging, fine. But trash mobs should be a cannon fodder, not damage sponges. This same tension is seen in DOOM. 

Many people disliked DOOM Eternal (and will likely be complaining about TDA) because it had mechanical depth greater than "point and shoot." 

Personally, I'd rather companies do new things and take risks. The original "pure" experiences still exist. It's not a DISASTROUS update... I feel like this sentiment is way overblown. The first 3 acts are a little bit more difficult, which is a good thing imo. Everything past that point so far doesn't feel all that different from what it was before.

Moreover, it's only been a few days, chill tf out. I doubt most people have even played past the first act before jumping on the hate train. No rest for the wicked exists.


You either make blasting or make hard and sweaty combat 1v1 or 1v3 at best. It’s literally just a mismatch of the dash speed vs enemy movement, lack of attack telegraphing on normal monsters and no parry system. Yeah that would make it more like an action game but — that’s what they’re doing and there a reason action games have those mechanics and tend not to rely on horde enemies that move faster than the player there is no way, thats why nobody plays these games for "meaningful" combat, whatever that even means, its to blast monsters and progress your character. even examples like no rest for the wicked trended towards blasting after playing through it.
I doubt they will ever find a way to balance OP gear and normal gear while keeping the combat the same and i think its a waste of time for them to even try. Total non issue - Version 0.2 

The time to do dramatic balancing is early access, people should wait until full release if they can’t handle inevitable change. There is nothing wrong with their vision, the balance is just off and will be worked on continuously. I have faith that they will get there. Basically the idea is trash mobs are slain in packs like any arpg, maybe certain trash mobs force you to change up your playstyle for a second but not much, it's mostly clearing trash. Then rares slow you down a little but you mostly clear them quick. Then boss fights are significant and require positioning and dodging and learning the mechanics. That's the vision, I don't get how it's not possible but I see comment after comment saying it's at odds with itself. GGG has never said they want it to be a souls like or that trash mobs should be individually hard fights. The only problem is that the balance is off and it's going to take them time to get it right. Wtf is that title, it's far from disastrous, people are just upset that they can't blast their way through it with their eyes closed like D4. Speak for yourself.

The patch is a step in the right direction according to what was promised. If you want to play poe 1 that game is still running. 

This poe 1 community is toxic AF and have major skill issues e. G. They cannot play a game unless:

1. They find a streamer with a 1 button click build that clears everything on screen
2. Everything is offered in a silver platter

The game is fine and easy for us that actually engage with it.

For chrissakes they are even complaining that the PARRY mechanic should be made automatic cuz timing it is too hard... Mind you in this game you just need to hold down the parry button and wait... Actual no timing whatsoever needed I've played maybe 20 hours and just think the game feels awful. It's slower and the damage is lower, but the mobs are still there. Made me think I fucked up my build even though there's not that much choice. It also doesn't help that there are kinda two games. There's part 1: the campaign. Play, level up, find stuff, get a build online. Despite it being a bit of a slog I love that part. Then, when you get into endgame, it turns into trade-with-bots-simulator-2000 and it's just no freaking fun for me. You really have to get into the economy/trading bullshit to progress in the endgame and if you want to no-life a game and dig deep, then there's a game for you there. For me it's a big drag.