What do physics/biology that make up neuroscience say anything about how the brain functions to determine if someone has desirable traits of executive function or not?I was writing out a big long comment, but stopped.

Let me just say yes, I believe in executive dysfunction.  It is maddening. The mod auto flags here are hilarious. Please find a better AI? It's the hallmark of my whole life, sadly. Yes, I do.  Looking for support to collab with LEGO. Let's see. Either people with 'executive dysfunction' are incurring the costs of their behaviour because:

1) they are unable to rationally evaluate outcomes (not usually the case)

2) they don't care about the outcomes (also not usually the case - negative outcomes usually affect this population the same as the rest)

3) they are unable to weigh distant future outcomes as highly as near future outcomes, less so than the rest, when deciding on their immediate next behaviour (very often the case)

4) they are using 'executive dysfunction' as an excuse (the negative outcomes of their behaviour on them usually greatly outweigh the immediate benefits they incur by having their negative behaviour excused, so it would again usually not be a decision a rational person would make)

5) task switching is more difficult for them than other people (very often the case)

6) they enjoy the feeling of being disorganized because organization feels trapping (sometimes the case, but is almost always a reaction to the difficulty they experience in managing organization)

From the above we can glean that:

1) the negative outcome behaviour associated with executive dysfunction is almost always not the course of action a rational person would take if they had all of the information laid out

2) people who profess to experience executive dysfunction do not wish to experience these negative outcomes

3) if we grant these people the benefit of the doubt that they either tried to modify their behaviour or are unable to even coordinate trying due to the difficulties most people professing to experience executive dysfunction present with, because they want to avoid the negative outcomes,

4) then it seems like the best explanation is that for one reason or another, they *cannot* modify their behaviour to an adequate level to avoid the negative outcomes

Which is quite serious, and importantly means that it's **involuntary**, which means that rather than being morally deserving of the negative outcomes, they are morally deserving of positive outcomes like most of us think most people are deserving of.