For the purposes of data mining, PoE2's torrents haven't had "the data that matters" for updating 3rd party tooling/sites (e.g., PoB, PoE2Wiki, etc.). We likely won't have said data until the real patch when the league's about to start. But I'll monitor some dev-tool channels and stuff that I'm privvy to and update this comment if I hear anything exciting that I can share.

Good luck at league start y'all! 
༼ つ ◕_◕ ༽つ Path Of Building Devs TAKE MY ENERGY ༼ つ ◕_◕ ༽つ GIMME SKILL TREEEE MINERS, GET TO WORK! 

&gt;!please `&lt;3` !&lt;

EDIT: Per Chuanhsing (poedb developer): 
&gt; In recent PoE1 3.26, they removed the entire index file (_index.bin) and disabled any data mining before launch

This could be the standard moving forward. [deleted] why is the download speed terrible? anyone else has slow speed on torrent? for me its loading with 2MB/s

i can do way more... Is there no steam predownload? This is for the standalone client correct? EARTH DAY GIVE TREE I'm fully supportive of blocking data mining. I'm as anxious as anyone else, but a lot of the community would benefit from a few days of not hyper-focusing on a meta or "best build" right out the gate and enjoy at least a day or two of trying what works.

Too many meta-slaves and people who want streamers/YouTubers opinions IV'd directly into their bloodstream. These client/patch sizes are absolutely cooked Nice predownload, actually have 0 peers ... I have been been refreshing every couple of hours for the last three days waiting for this moment. I can finally finalize some of my builds with this. 

Unless dataminers aren't able to get the JSON, in which case, there is no god. When will steam update be up? This is total chaos explore the Game 
Get the old Feeling finding new stuff byyourself 46gb is like 15 hours of downlaoding for me bruh moment :( i hope they let us predownlaod on steam like day before What do i need to do with the file after downloading? Was looking forward to early skill tree and maybe gems so I can begin to plan a build now and actually play the game when league starts, but I guess when league starts I'd have to plan first then play the league after planning..

Having this information before league start was actually nice to have and an exciting, but that's gone now. It's a shame. Really sad that everything is being blocked until the patch just before launch. A lot of the hype of a league launch is theory crafting the week before and seeing what everyone comes up with, including videos, but I just don't feel that this time 🤷 Torrent get?  How long after that does it usually take for dataminers to do the thing? Doing my part (can't use it since I use steam) Will GeForce Now have the update by launch? question, the file is 111gb and i dont have that much free space in my pc, if i just wait for the update and update it tommorow will i still need 111gb too to update or maybe lower? thanks Can you dl torrent as steam user? Question: If the torrent doesn’t finish downloading before the patch drops, can I resume the download using the official client? The torrent speed is way too slow. I don't think I 'll be able preload in time :/
GGHF, fellow exiles! why do they release the pre download too late ? the torrent speed right now is 200KB/S, this means i will have to download the patch from steam which will take like 10-15 hours so will be 9 hours late to launch i practiced the acts for like 3 days and its just cooked :( Here we go bois! Sadge steam user no preload i hope skill tree would remain a surprise on every future launch 
༼ つ ◕_◕ ༽つ I'm on vacation. GGG TAKE MY ENERGY

 ༼ つ ◕_◕ ༽つ I really dislike the secrecy. I don't like going in semi blind. Being able to prepare is half the league start fun for me. LOG IN HELL YEAH GIVE ANYTHING IN HANDS that's not maces piwakawaka LETS GO! [removed]