I’m super excited for all the changes, and I’m a big believer in trying something before we judge it.

However, I’m interested in first impressions as well.  After the patch goes live, let’s wait a few weeks and do a follow-up poll.

What’s your opinion on fort aggro and shielding?

[View Poll](https://www.reddit.com/poll/1n7hymu)I just don't understand what this change is supposed to improve in gameplay.

Most people focus on diving and early lining when discussing this change, but what I see is winning team will win harder since creeps now deal more dps and players can just walk in and zone defenders off with no risks whatsoever.

EDIT: personally I'd be interested in aggroing + creep buff + exp globe changes. Shield is unnecessary. My gut reaction is if we're going with shielding I would prefer a passive defensive aura around the structure rather than a targeted shield. 25 armour maybe.

Seems like it could be a bit janky if you get hit by a random ability and consume the shield charge.

Happy to see changes that will mix up the meta though and see how it plays out! I wouldn’t mind meeting in the middle.  Fort aggro if you’re attacking a hero but no more armor reduction and only 25 armor for the defending hero.

But I haven’t even played with the new style - it’s just what I perceive.  And I’m only gravitating towards what I suggested as that’s what I remember in dota.   Missing the "Both" option. Main problem with changes is that we don't have any vision as to what they are trying to achieve. 

I prefer the current Aggro because the alternative presented is not much better.

It's unintuitive, only works on a single defensive hero, won't scale with armor gaining and might selective be better/worse for some heroes. It's not "dive better/worse" situation as many have mentioned on previous post. 

I would much rather test first a smaller value shield with AoE armor of say 15/25 that can stack (so other heroes with base armor/talent can make use of it). 

As far as Fort/Keep aggro goes, you can test changing the armor reduction to be dmg reduction or mix of both. But not full removal. I literally do not know because the change isn't even live. I think it's interesting that for once we have big changes coming. So I have no preference and I'm interested in figuring out how the game is going to be affected TBH I wanted both, shields + aggroing You're all going to hate this change when you realize that you're going to get farmed against better players/more aggressive comps. Like, really farmed. Like you're not going to be able to soak shit or play the video game whatsoever 16 Comments, a total of 80 votes in the Poll but only 1 upvote for the Post itself. What are you doing Reddit? I think if they want to make a shield meachanic, there is ways to do it in more interesting ways, like for example making minion that can shield you on lane, giving you armor or maybe even healing. Or they could add abilities, which everyone could use, but on their side of the map, maybe same way near fort. I generaly don't like the fact that it's just a passive mechanic

And agro mechanic is the way to make game way more snowbolling for sure. Becouse 5 man team will not care about a shield on 1 guy, when they got obj pushing, they will just wipe everyone if they have udvantage and there will be no outplay, no comeback there are a lot more ways this could be done.

it really depends what sort of gameplay is preferred.  
what the purpose of forts are

if the fort is there to give you a safe space then having it hit the enemy hard and reduce their armour is as good as it gets probably

the best defense is offense right.  
getting punished is a deterrence.