Okay, real talk — everywhere I look, I keep seeing stories like:

&gt; “This guy made $10k in a month with ChatGPT.”
“She built an AI side hustle that replaced her 9-5.”
“AI tools helped him launch a business in 3 weeks.”



Cool… but nobody ever explains the actual step-by-step path.

I’m not here for vague “you just have to use AI smartly” advice. I want to understand:

WHAT exactly are people doing to earn with AI right now (freelancing? automation? content? SaaS?)

HOW do you start from zero if you don’t have a tech background or coding skills?

What’s working TODAY vs just hype from last year?


If you were starting fresh in 2025, with just a laptop, an internet connection, and 2–3 hours a day, what would your real first 30 days look like?

I’m ready to learn, experiment, and put in the work — but I want to hear from people who’ve actually done it, not just “AI is the future” talk.

Drop your unfiltered experiences, your wins, your failures — and maybe a roadmap a total beginner like me could follow.Check out the [Community Highlights](https://www.reddit.com/r/passive_income) for current and future Mod Vetted opportunities and Newsletter Episodes.

**Please do due diligence on any crypto opportunity. A simple google search could save you a fortune.**    


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/passive_income) if you have any questions or concerns.* The only people making this money are the ones selling their 'secrets' to gullible people. [deleted] "Everyone’s Earning Crazy Money With AI"

Don't believe everything you see or hear posted on reddit or any other socials people are not always truthful. Them dashes though You are the product There's no "one answer fits all" here, as there are several ways to make money with AI and you have to pick the one most right for you. Some examples are...

\- Promote AI tools as an affiliate

\- Promote AI automation to businesses to streamline workflow

\- Become an affiliate for AI companions (my niche, obviously)

\- Build your own SaaS using AI

\- Build websites using  AI and then flip for profit

\- Use AI to create content for Youtube

\- Use AI video tools to create promo videos for local small business (I also do this)

\- Use AI to do designs to sell on Etsy, etc

\- Use AI to do design work, logos, etc as a freelancer

\- Use AI to write articles for blogposts and monetize the blog

\- Clone your voice to sell to AI voiceover platforms, like ElevenLabs

\- Use AI to create audiobooks

\- Use AI to make digital products to sell

\- Use AI to create courses to sell

\- Create AI influencers to sell content to fans

\- Create custom content to sell using AI (NSFW or SFW)

Etc, etc...I'd be all day thinking of the possibilities. Heck, you can even use AI to GIVE you ideas!! Just DO IT! Doesn’t really make much money for coding tasks. More like using training wheels on a bike. Enterprise companies are dumping tons of money into AI and ML solutions that only save time and money. They don’t make money. 

It will catch up with us and the billionaires aren’t going to be happy. They won’t take a loss. They’ll just fire people, cash out and shut down.

We’re going to see a lot of acquisitions this coming year. The money most people make with AI is also artificial :) Everybody is lying to you.  The people making money are the ones selling courses and guides by claiming they're making 20K a month or whatever nonsense they say.  AI slop is everywhere.  Whatever digital product or print design or faceless channel or app design or software you can think of, 5,000 versions of the same shit already exist.  Yours won't stand out.

Come up with an original or niche idea and let AI help you make the work flow easier.  Don't expect to just type some prompts in, have AI do all the work and sit back and collect checks. Everyone isn't earning crazy money. A tiny, tiny, tiny percentage are. Smoke and mirrors designed to sell you something. So far looks like guides and affiliates selling ai tools. Lol the post written by chat gpt and he dares to ask how to make money on the internet with AI 🤣🤣🤣 what nerve!!! [deleted] I've been making a billion dollars each month with AI. But even though I'm making sooooo much money with AI I've decided to waste my time trolling subreddits offering to sell people pdfs on how THEY can make hella money using AI. 

Now, I'm selling these pdfs (I like to call them digital products because it sounds new and interesting and more acceptable to my suckers, I mean clients, than them paying for a generic pdf that I got AI to write and that they could get AI to write as well) for a mere pittance compared to all the money I'm actually making with AI. You might ask: if you're making all this money with AI, why waste your time peddling courses online? Well, I do it out of the goodness of my heart and a genuine desire to help others succeed. You see, I don't NEED the measly course money because I'm so successful with AI, but I also can't just GIVE it away because I need to know that you're serious, so charging you money is a CALL TO ACTION. It lets me know you're serious about being my pupil, or AI's pupil, since it created the course for me. 

There's tons of money to be made! I can tell you how if you buy my generic course written by AI! 

(A whole bunch of people are about to seethe bc this sub has been taking over by pyramid scheme shills) I think learn what ai can do then get creative simple as that. Think outside the box a little bit but that goes for anything really not just ai The post itself is written by AI You can never earn just using AI..

The post u see "how I made 10k using AI" and similar one. Actually they earn money by sharing these post.... Its almost like people could use chatgbt to ask the questions instead of using chatgbt to make a post. Maybe I’ll start believing the AI hype when it learns how to use an em dash.

I mean, I won’t. But the bar is so low, it’s on what the lava men living deep in the center of the Earth would call the ground, is all I’m saying. They are not earning with ai.

They are using ai to earn. most probably by creating a digital product, or asking ai to automate some works etc etc. however most of them are fake, just to create curiosity and increase their hype.

You can use AI as your assistant. It's powerful, you have to understand its potential and utilise it well. You used AI to create this post, might as well just tell it to gather everything from the internet and cook you a plan for making money realistically online. Unless there’s a way to verify the claims, and I mean truly verify with eg SEC filings or similar, all the ”I made x amount of dollars in y amount of any given time period” is just financial fiction. &gt;WHAT exactly are people doing to earn with AI right now (freelancing? automation? content? SaaS?)

All of the above can be used. You solve a problem and with that create **value** to the customer.

&gt;HOW do you start from zero if you don’t have a tech background or coding skills?

You look at the problem you want to solve, how can you create value? How can you make sure your paying users, your customers, feel like they get more than what they pay for? You start there. Without that you don't have a business. 

When that's in place.. you look at the investments needed to get going. And you start grinding, learn what you don't know. Grind, grind. Fail, over and over. Until you get there. That's what we do. What you see is the the result of low tickets high volume sales with only 5-10% retention. Many does fake it but it is not entirely impossible see Gumroad top sold products and also many AI wrappers do earn in that range. However there is no defined playbook. It is a volume game, but with high trust and personal brand built first.

Selling a $50 product to 200 people is not so hard if you have can mass market your product to 20000 trust full intent ready buyers.

Let me give you an example, you share tips and actionables for generating leads for businesses and have enough skill to market your messages to only the interested buyers. You give a lot of value upfront, in fact just put your entire product in pieces to them while testing and validating what’s sticking and throw rest. Over the period you would have a collection of proven actionables that can be sold as a bundle, using the exact same pieces you were giving away for free.

It is very skilful and patient game, don’t expect any result in your first year also you have to keep refining your audience and your product constantly, it is easy for those who knows what they are doing but impossible for rookies.

I can share an example in DM. It is a proof that is works but let me warn you, it takes a lot of focus they're 99% scams, they just wanna sell their 'courses' to the gullible the only people making money are the ones selling the shovels to shovel the bullshit They are con-people.  I would ask this with one account and answer it with another account to funnel people to a "make money fast with AI guide". Don't forget... AI is booming. It doesn't necessarily money is being thrown at strictly good OR bad things. It's being thrown at everything.   Find your own arbitrage I have two income streams one is much more traditional, a blog which I have a company that pays me per click (a baking related product). It’s continued to get traffic since 2020 and been consistent. No ads on there just clicks. Has a lot of content on there. Risk is if that client decides to stop then the thing dies but it’s paid for itself many times over so just happy as long as it lasts.

The other is 100% AI hustle!! It’s is a bit more secretive, as it’s NSFW. I buy an AI generated package of content and post it to a niche site which horny guys buy the content over and over and it’s going extremely well 😂 hopefully it lasts! :) super easy, very profitable. (Made over $3k in last few weeks!) WHAT exactly are people doing to earn with AI right now (freelancing? automation? content? SaaS?)

Problem solving or entertainment Content. ONLY valuable and desirable contents pay off. What are they ? ask the damn chatgpt. If you’re starting from zero, I found it really helpful to try beginner-friendly AI exercises first. Coursiv gave me guided projects that made experimenting with AI tools less intimidating and more practical.