The only thing i see is that Janitor pushed WAY too big update for a community of a game that was in comatose state for half of it's life. Even exp globes introduction wasn't as massive as that change now. Only towers ammo delete was comparable. 

And people who got acustomed to extremely static and unchanging flow of hots suddenly have to shift everything they know. And they freak out, not wishing for any changes, while HotS was about changes and genre-denying mechanics in the first place.

the last five years they've been BEGGING for changes, saying the game is stale.  
well, here it is and the response is panic..

must be so confusing from janitors perspective.  
"but you guys asked for changes and we worked very hard on this and you're complaining about it before even playing with it"

sad

janitor has more gamedev experience than most of us, how about giving the benefit of the doubt to the professional.

complain about things that exist not things that you've been told might exist in the future.  
thats my 2cents. I am super happy to see some changes. The game will feel fresh for a while, and if it doesnt work out - they will just revert it. This change isn’t at large as people think it is. The change to xp is probably the largest but even then it’s still much more forgiving than 2.0 launch and pre xp globes. If you weren’t in a lane then you got nothing, just 100% miss opportunities. Inspired minions are chip damage at most with the 20% health increase. Shielded and mage minion do no damage, the arches start around 50dps so a 35% increase on that is about 67dps. Not really anything to write home about. Basically all 3 archers alive and inspired count for 1 extra archer. The maps that will see the largest impact from these changes is actually cursed hollow. Because there are many times post obj that you’re losing a keep to a huge archer wave. If an enemy runs over and inspires them I can see the keep dropping from changes. And possibly towers of doom, where wave-clear can overtake teamfight teams early. Ultimately I think this change benefits defending teams as somebody like garrosh getting 50 armor to stand out front will become literally unkillable. Or anubarack taking shield on 1 becoming damn near immune to magic damage. Even if they don't push the call for help changes it's still a massive update to the game.  Honestly, I love the shake-up. Makes it feel like an anomaly.

Balance wise, that's why wrong have a ptr in the first place. People are acting like this is already getting added.

I'll just have to play it to know if I like it or not. Besides, it wouldn't be the first time something big was added to the live game only to be removed later. E.g weather, medallions, ect. Moba games are fundamentally about the power of adaptability. Thats where true skill shines. 

There's people who know what hero and talents they're gonna pick before they even press play. And that's usually the point when matchmaking accuracy starts going downhill. 

Now that there's actual changes, people complain. How are you gonna play now when there's no up to date guide to tell you where to click for the first 10 minutes of a game? 

Hot take: use actual decision making. At the end of the day, that's how meta's are formed. From people who use their own decision making. You can do that too. Yeah the changes are not that big of a deal, the ptr functionality was already in the game, with difference that the shots slowed AAs as well, now you get double EHP and still slow enemy chasing for better kiting &amp; landing skillshots easier on them to fight back.

The biggest change about ptr is making playing around minions more important &amp; rewarding (kinda like other mobas) this encourages ppl to not miss minion waves and push with them instead of backdoring, which is kinda the optimal play already, it's just pushed now with immidiate feedback &amp; that helps ppl learn faster If the changes don't work out. They can just change them all back, which they've done before. 

Janitor has been awesome so far. So let him cook. People have been melting down over changes for ever in the game. I remember the healer nerf patch back in the day I think people who dont like the changes generally complain but ppl who like dont say anything. You give too much power to the reddit presence.
Its a nice way to spark life to the game. The deletion of small exp globes when not in lane is the only bad change this update proposes. I at the very least feel like the changes should be given a fair chance to cook before criticizing too harshly.  A lot of the criticism is purely theoretical by people who never played with the changes and it's hard to actually understand what is good or bad until it is given a bit to be playtested. Off you go with your changes for the sake of changes mentality Keep/fort changes are wild, looking forward to the changes I want the ammo back. Make towers deal aoe and bring back the 3rd tower next to to fort to compensate.  
Keeping track of ammo for pushes was fun to me I do like the game is changing, I can only hope that the changes bring more players in. Look, there are things that some prefer that way, and it's acceptable, not everything has to change. We have a PRT part that allows for testing. 

Of course if the majority wants something changed it is fair but at least the concerns and the minority has to be listened at least. r/beggingchoosers It's not about it being too big. It's about changes being terrible, aiming to make game easier for bad players while rewarding good players less. Only good change in the patch is regarding the minor exp globes(exp globes should've never been a thing in the first place as they too were made to cater bad players). 



The trash maps are still gonna remain trash even after the changes and they aren't even in the rotation so who cares? Infernal Shrines is just getting dumbed down with the punisher jump being available in the dummy way on outside and shrine minion changes aren't gonna have any impact. This patch is just buffing baddies and unskilled play while penalizing or removing rewards from skill expressions. I haven't played for about three years.  I felt they trainwrecked the casual way that I played Sylvanas, so my gametime dwindled.

I just don't invest my life into video games anymore (my favorite being TF2) and honestly couldn't give a fuck about "big changes", other than them being my main reason for ocassionally coming back for a few rounds.

When a game has reached EOL, sometimes change can breathe a new life into it.  As far as I knew, development had ended on HoTS years ago.