Is there evidence that men’s limbic circuitry operates with a lower threshold and higher gain in response to sexual and attachment-related stimuli, and if so, what evolutionary, neurobiological, and sociocultural mechanisms might account for this pattern?Intuition and knowledge says women are just as horny as men but don't share it due to punishment. 

Also men get arousal that sticks cause when they get blood in their boners there's a feedback loop. 

I'd look into differences in cycles of arousal but wouldn't depend on sexist clichés that reinforce sexist stereotypes that lend credence to "it wasn't his fault boys will be boys" "lower threshold" and "higher gain" are electrical engineering terms.

They don't really have any specific meaning in neuroscience.

I don't know how anyone could hope to test what you're asking. At least not meaningfully. [deleted] In which societies???? Late to the party but adding to what people said, estrogens have strong anti oxydant properties and it seem to make the female dopaminergic system better suited for reasonable decision.

As in, dopamine basically works as reward prediction error, and any amount of oxidative stress will shift the results by a lot. So anti oxydant like estrogens can restore balance. Think of it like this : you have values from 0 to 10, 0 being don’t engage in the activity because it’s boring and 10 being engage in the activity whatever the consequences. With anti oxydants, you will code values from 0 to 10, but without them you will have a binary encoding based on whether a signal can make it through or not. So a 5 might feel like a 0 and a 7 like a 10.

So basically, I think women and men are equally "horny" but females have way better breaks most of the times. Though before periods and when estrogens drop, I think it would make them more prone to take riskier decisions or not think about the consequences of their actions when exposed to high stimulis.

On the other hand, men are more violent, are more prone to engage in criminal activities, are more prone to be sex offenders etc. To treat some of the sex offenders psychiatrists prescribe estrogens on top of other things. It’s not a coincidence.

Testosterone makes the whole thing even worse because it enhances dopamine release. That’s why they try to suppress it on top of the estrogen prescription for SO.

You have the right to think it’s just an education problem but I don’t think it covers all of the issue.

It totally blows up to pieces the myth that males are more reasonable than women btw. It’s incredibely not true from a neuro science pov.

I am quite sure about the science between this, but I am open to be totally wrecked if I am wrong so don’t hesitate ! To add on to the conversation, one should also pay attention to hormonal differences between men and women that influence behavior. For instance, decrease in estrogen during menopausal changes, certain hormonal peaks during menstruation that increase libido, and different ages of sexual maturation in the development of males and females, such as how girls begin puberty earlier than boys.