I've been a lurker in this sub for a while and I'm always looking for new side hustles. Lately, I've been noticing something really interesting: a few people I follow online are now making some serious money. I've heard figures around $20k a month by creating images and videos of AI Influencers. They're not just creating one-off pieces of art they're building entire brands and content libraries for things like social media pages.

 It's clear that AI is becoming a way to create content at scale, but I'm still trying to wrap my head around the specifics. Has anyone here been successful with a side hustle like this? I'm curious to hear how it works. What tools or models are you guys using to create these images and videos? Most people online are suggesting tools like Modelsify, Midjourney and Lumalabs for this, which one works best when it comes to realism.

How do you get around the consistency issues, especially when creating a character or a brand with the AI Influencer. I'm really interested in learning more about this new wave of content creation, and would love to hear any tips or experiences you have. I am not greedy even if I am making $200 a month it is a good start and  I am okay with it. Thanks in advance!Check out the [Community Highlights](https://www.reddit.com/r/passive_income) for current and future Mod Vetted opportunities and Newsletter Episodes.

**Please do due diligence on any crypto opportunity. A simple google search could save you a fortune.**    


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/passive_income) if you have any questions or concerns.* They're lying I can tell you from experience that it is ridiculously difficult to create real monetizable content using AI. I tried three different things and had so many difficulties that I gave up. The first was a coloring book for kids. AI kept messing up sizes, or would give me color images, or a host of other ways to mess up pages making it three times the amount of work to get just 10 pages worth of material. Second, I tried making a video game using rosebud.ai. What the YouTube video about how easy it is doesn’t tell you is that the free version has limitations on how many prompts you can execute in a day (it’s something like 10). So I paid for higher level. I worked for four days and got a terrible looking homepage and the AI kept telling me to add sound when the game wasn’t even working. It kept saying, “now that everything is working properly, let’s add sound.” And I’d be like, it is not working, can you please fix it, and it would do all kinds of things but it wouldn’t work. Ultimately, it started giving errors when I was going with the prompts it itself suggested, saying ‘I’m’ not being clear, when it wasn’t even my prompt. I have a long, super frustrating story about a different super simple app I was trying to create and why that didn’t work but I’ve already ranted enough so I’ll stop here. The number of people that email me about AI solutions to things that aren't a problem in our business (old school manufacturing, £lots/pa).

They know nothing about my business, nothing about my customers and nothing about our processes; I can only assume that they send out a metric fuck ton of unsolicited emails under the "let's hope 1% convert rule".

Perhaps if they bothered doing their research they could save time and cost following decent leads.

There is probably an AI app for that. Who cares even if they are doing that? Plenty of people make money by adding absolutely no value to the world and just adding shit to the pile of shit. The sooner you decide to not be one of them, the better. Go out and create value and success will generally come They are not actually creating anything or earning that directly through social media. they are likely selling courses, affiliate referrals to AI services, or exaggerating their earnings. It’s all speculation and will crash in a while They dont make 20k a month,they pretend just for  click bait and try to sell their shit desperately and make few bucks a months this is psyop bull. how much did Altman pay you? I use Stable Diffusion Ultra for work and I can tell you right now AI is fucking ass at maintaining consistency across characters, themes and topics - even with our extensive models exported from 3DS max in various poses AI cannot stop burning through credits l. It’s fucking infuriating. You know people making 20k a month, why don’t you ask them. People 'you follow' make money when you follow them. Bragging about how much money they make doing X gets people like you to follow them. If enough people follow them, they will get rich, regardless. 


Real talk, if you made $20k per month, with no effort, why would you go and tell the world how to make a competing product? Automate a boring task for a corporation To make that $20k a month, it's hard at first but if you set it up for automatic then it becomes easy once the ball gets traction.  A lot of them are selling group membership so 2k ppl at $30 a month, $20k isn't that hard now lol.  Just be active and give help so if it helps someone, they are willing to pay for something you recommend for what you helped them for.    Starting is the most important part of it though and that's where most people fail and the ones who do start will likely fail because it isn't fast enough for them to see the $. [removed] Sounds like a sells pitch. &gt;-&gt; You can make passive income using AI tools but not exclusively. You’ll still need some other programs and elbow grease to get quality content No you don’t. Yeah, I’ve been noticing that too ,the people doing well seem to have cracked a repeatable system for character consistency and audience building, not just the tech side. Makes me wonder what the “real” workflow behind the scenes looks like. What are the platforms these people are using? Total BS Please don't be a second hand thinker bro Fuck people who use ai for anything. I’ve seen it first hand. See my other comment on this thread. It’s fucking infuriating I also see its effect.  Layoffs all over by me.  Y’all? T.o       , ,s,,  ,  ,  fdf5⁵c0r I don't know about 20k a month, But I do know some are making money but not the way you think, its mostly the nsfw kind. I have seen some on patreon, they center their content around a franchise, for instance, I saw one about superheroes. Its AI nsfw art of the heroes, and they drop like 50+ pictures and lots of adult ai nsfw videos and tons of people are subbed to them at $5, $15. they pick heroes from DC and marvel. I saw another account that focuses on disney characters. I dont know if you can make money with AI content on Tiktok, Youtube or facebook yet. "Lately ive been noticing something really interesting" 🤓🤓 at least try and sound human when promoting your crappy ai program you clanker I have not seen a huge success other than word of mouth. Many women are using TikTok and getting a lot of views. Unsure if that brings in income for them. I am personally using AI as an agent. Acting as a brand manager and marketing manager. I created ebooks and research sub niches for KDP on Amazon. So there can be profit. Unsure of the scale You can't create good videos with ai How? I don’t make 20k a month yet, but I was able to quit my job thanks to AI Almost all the comments dont have technical expertise about AI and software development. I am a software developer and I have been able to generate income using AI content for myself and my partners. I wont say it was easy, but it is possible. Fuck off bot Don’t believe everything you “heard”, if you (personally) know someone making that then ask them? Or is this just some random person on the internet? You know or just read scam post or AI post?😄😄 It is possible but you 1. Have to be very creative 2. This is a lot of work Nobody makes 20K a month selling AI images and videos, but some make 20-50K by selling their so called “AI courses” that are just scams. You can’t make money with AI but u you can scam hundreds of people into thing they can make money with AI. In life if you wanna make easy money, u lie, u cheat and u steal. [removed] They’re lying. YouTube is already discouraging ai content, others will too The best way to make money is to help people to use AI. Let them try to make money off of it. Charge $50 an hour to help them create something. You have fallen for their lies. They’ll just try sell you a method on how to do that Yes!! 👍 

I have two income streams one is more traditional, a blog which I have a company that pays me per click (a baking related product). It’s continued to get traffic since 2020 and been consistent. No ads on there just clicks. Has a lot of content on there. Risk is if that client decides to stop then the thing dies but it’s paid for itself many times over so just happy as long as it lasts. Not used any AI with it.

The other is a bit more secretive, as it’s NSFW. I create an AI generated package of content and post it to a niche site which horny guys buy the content over and over and it’s going extremely well 😂 hopefully it lasts! :) super easy, VERY profitable. Nobody wants AI slop except old people # I’ve been experimenting with using ChatGPT to come up with side hustle ideas. I compiled 50 of these into a PDF for myself. if anyone wants the full list, comment ‘send me’ [deleted] So